

================================================================================# IPad

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:22

The iPad is a brand of tablet computers developed and marketed by Apple that run the company's mobile operating systems iOS and  later iPadOS. The first-generation iPad was introduced on January 27, 2010. Since then, the iPad product line has been expanded to include the smaller iPad Mini, the lighter and thinner iPad Air, and the flagship iPad Pro models. As of 2022, over 670 million iPads have been sold, making Apple the largest vendor of tablet computers. Due to its popularity, the term "iPad" is sometimes used as a generic name for tablet computers.
The iPhone's iOS operating system (OS) was initially used for the iPad, but in September 2019, its OS was switched to a fork of iOS called iPadOS that has better support for the device's hardware and a user interface tailored to the tablets' larger screens. Since then, major versions of iPadOS have been released annually. The iPad's App Store is subject to application and content approval. Many older devices are susceptible to jailbreaking, which circumvents these restrictions.
The original iPad was well-received for its software and was recognized as one of the most-influential inventions of 2010. As of the third quarter of 2021, the iPad had a market share of 34.6% among tablets. Beside personal use, the iPad is used in the business, education, healthcare, and technology sectors. There are two connectivity variants of iPad; one has only Wi-Fi, and one has additional support for cellular networks. Accessories for the iPad include the Apple Pencil, Smart Case, Smart Keyboard, Smart Keyboard Folio, Magic Keyboard, and several adapters.


== History ==


=== Background ===

Apple co-founder and CEO Steve Jobs said in a 1983 speech: What we want to do is we want to put an incredibly great computer in a book that you can carry around with you and learn how to use in 20 minutes ... and we really want to do it with a radio link in it so you don't have to hook up to anything and you're in communication with all of these larger databases and other computers.
In 1993, Apple worked on the Newton MessagePad, a tablet-like personal digital assistant (PDA). John Sculley, Apple's chief executive officer, led the development. The MessagePad was poorly received for its indecipherable handwriting recognition feature and was discontinued at the direction of Jobs, who returned to Apple in 1998 after an internal power struggle. Apple also prototyped a PowerBook Duo–based tablet computer but decided not to release it to avoid hurting MessagePad sales.
In May 2004, Apple filed a design trademark patent in Europe for a handheld computer, hypothetically referencing the iPad, beginning a new round of speculation that led to a 2003 report of Apple-affiliated manufacturer Quanta leaking Apple's orders for wireless displays. In May 2005, Apple filed US Design Patent No. D504,889 that included an illustration depicting a man touching and using a tablet device. In August 2008, Apple filed a 50-page patent application that includes an illustration of hands touching and gesturing on a tablet computer. In September 2009, Taiwan Economic News, citing "industry sources", reported the tablet computer Apple was working on would be announced in February 2010, although the announcement was made in that year's January.
The iPad's concept predates that of the iPhone, although the iPhone was developed and released before the iPad. In 1991, Apple's chief design officer Jonathan Ive devised an industrial design of a stylus-based tablet, the Macintosh Folio, which led to the development of a larger tablet prototype project codenamed K48 that Apple began in 2004. Ive sought to develop the tablet first but came to an agreement with Jobs that the iPhone was more important and should be prioritized.


=== iPad ===

The first generation of iPad was announced on January 27, 2010, and pre-ordering began on March 12. Initial reaction to the product name, which struck some women as a menstrual pun "indicative of a male-helmed team oblivious" to the connotations, was negative.
A Wi-Fi-capable version was released in the United States on April 3 and a 3G-capable version was released on April 30. Apple released iPad models internationally on May 28, July 23, and September 17. The first iPad has a 1 GHz Apple A4 CPU with 256 MB of RAM and a PowerVR SGX535 GPU. It has four buttons; a home button that directs the user to its homepage, a wake-and-sleep button, and two volume-control buttons. Its multi-touch-based display has a resolution of 1,024 by 768 pixels.
The second generation of iPad was announced on March 2, 2011, and released on March 11. It is 33% thinner and 15% lighter than its predecessor, and uses a dual-core Apple A5 chip consisting of a twice-as-fast CPU and a nine-times-faster GPU. It has one camera each on the front and the back, both of which support Apple's video-telephony service, FaceTime. Apple slimmed the iPad by eliminating the display's stamped-sheet-metal frame, using thinner glass for the screen overlay, and eliminating some space between the display and battery.
The third generation of iPad was announced on March 7, 2012, and released on March 16. It uses a dual-core Apple A5X chip embedded with quad-core graphics. Its Retina Display is 2,048 by 1,536 pixels and its pixels are 50% denser than those of standard displays. Unlike the iPhone and iPod Touch's built-in applications, which work in portrait, landscape-left and landscape-right orientations, the iPad's built-in applications support the upside-down orientation of the device. Consequently, the device has no "native" orientation; only the relative position of the home button changes.
The fourth generation of iPad was announced on October 23, 2012, and released on November 2. It has an Apple A6X chip, improved LTE and WiFi connectivity, a five-megapixel, rear-facing camera that is capable of recording 1080p videos, and a 720p front-facing FaceTime HD camera. Its display has a resolution of 2,048 by 1,536 pixels.
The fifth generation of iPad was announced on March 21, 2017, and released on March 24. It uses an Apple A9 chip with an accompanying M9 motion coprocessor, and its cameras can capture low-light and HD-quality shots. Despite using the same Apple A9 and M9 processors as the 2015 iPhone 6S, it lacks support of the always-on "Hey Siri" voice recognition, a feature advertised as being made possible by low-power processing in those chips.
The sixth generation of iPad was announced and released on March 27, 2018. It uses a dual-core Apple A10 Fusion chip and feature a 1080p and 30fps rear mounted 8-megapixel iSight camera, and a 720p Facetime HD camera. It was the first non-Pro iPad to support the Apple Pencil. It also had faster FaceTime HD, LTE connectivity, Touch ID, and multitask functionalities.
The seventh generation of iPad was announced on September 10, 2019, and released on September 25. It uses a 64-bit Apple A10 Fusion chip, with a 4-core CPU and 6-core GPU. Its slightly larger 10.2" Retina Display has a resolution of 2,160 × 1,620 (3.5 million pixels). It added support for the Smart Keyboard accessory.
The eighth generation of iPad was announced on September 15, 2020, and released on September 18. It uses an Apple A12 Bionic chip, which has a 40 percent faster 6-core CPU and a 2-times faster 4-core GPU than its predecessor. The Apple A12 also included an embedded Neural Engine, and is capable of processing 5 trillion operations per second.
The ninth generation of iPad was announced and released on September 14, 2021. It uses an Apple A13 Bionic chip, which has a 20% faster CPU and GPU and an embedded, artificial intelligence–immersed Neural Engine. Its 12-megapixel ultra wide front camera adds support for Apple's "Center Stage Mode" technology, which locates people in the frame and tracks the camera view to keep them centered. Its Retina Display added support for the True Tone technology, which automatically adjusts the screen color temperature according to the ambient lighting.
The 10th-generation iPad was announced on October 18, 2022, with pre-orders starting immediately and availability set for October 26. It uses the Apple A14 Bionic chip, has a larger 10.9-inch screen, and replaces the Lightning connector with USB-C. Unlike all previous models in the iPad range, as well as the sixth-generation iPad Pro announced the same day, this model's front-facing camera is placed along the device's long edge, making it more suitable for video calling applications. Despite having a USB-C connector, it is not compatible with the second-generation Apple Pencil that can be used with all other USB-C iPads, instead using the first-generation Pencil with a USB-C-to-Lightning adapter, which will be included with new Pencil purchases. While lacking the Smart Connector of the Pro and Air lines, it is compatible with a new Magic Keyboard Folio announced alongside the device. This model did not immediately replace the 9th-generation iPad; Apple continued to sell the older model at the same price, while the price for the newer 10th-generation model was increased.
The 11th-generation iPad was announced on March 4, 2025, with the general availability set for March 12, 2025. It uses the A16 Bionic chip and starts with the 128GB storage capacity option and added the new 512GB storage capacity option.


=== iPad Mini ===

The first generation of the flagship, smaller iPad Mini was announced on October 23, 2012, and released on November 2. The 7.9-inch display has a resolution of 1024 by 768 pixels. The tablet uses a dual-core Apple A5 chip, and has hardware resembling that of the second generation of iPad. It has a FaceTime HD camera, a 5-megapixel iSight camera, an ultrafast wireless LTE range, and a 802.11a/b/g/n standard Wifi connectivity. It targets the emerging sector of mini tablets, such as Kindle Fire and Nexus 7.
The second generation of iPad Mini was announced on October 22, 2013, and released on November 12. Its hardware resembles that of the first generation of iPad Air.
The third generation of iPad Mini was announced on October 16, 2014, and released on October 22. It uses an Apple A7 chip with an embedded M7 motion coprocessor, and its 7.9-inch Retina screen display has a resolution of 2048 by 1536 pixels. It includes a 1080p HD camera, a FaceTime HD camera, and a 5-megapixel iSight camera.
The fourth generation of iPad Mini was announced and released on September 9, 2015. It uses a dual-core Apple A8 chip with an embedded Apple M8 motion coprocessor. Its headphone jack was re-positioned with the removal of a mute switch.
The fifth generation of iPad Mini was announced and released on March 18, 2019. It uses an Apple A12 Bionic chip, with a 3-times faster CPU and a 9-times faster GPU than its predecessor. It features a Truetone-based Retina screen display with 25% wider Color and higher pixel density.
The sixth generation of iPad Mini was announced and released on September 24, 2021. The display size was increased to 8.3 inches. It uses an Apple A15 Bionic chip, with a 40% faster 6-core CPU and 80% faster 5-core GPU. Its 16-core Neural Engine and AI accelerators within the CPU delivers a 2× boost of AI performance. Its 12-megapixel Ultra Wide front camera featured Apple's "Center Stage Mode" technology, while its 12-megapixel back camera had larger apertures, True Tone flash, and Smart HDR automatic shadow and highlight recovery. It includes a USB-C port, capable of transferring up to 5 gigabits per second of data; improved landscape stereo speakers; and a brighter Liquid Retina Display.
The seventh generation of iPad Mini was announced on October 15, 2024. It is powered by an Apple A17 Pro chip, which Apple says has 30 percent faster CPU, 25 percent faster GPU and a neural engine twice as fast as the previous generation. This model is marketed by Apple as built for Apple Intelligence, its upcoming artificial intelligence features. The storage on the lowest priced variant has increased from 64GB of previous generation to 128GB. The new Wi-Fi 6E chip is faster, the USB-C port is faster compared to previous generations. Like the iPad Pro (7th generation) and the iPad Air (6th generation), it is only compatible with the Apple Pencil Pro alongside the lower-entry Apple Pencil with USB-C port, making it incompatible with the Apple Pencil (2nd generation). It is not compatible with the Magic Keyboard for iPad and Smart Keyboard Folio due to its smaller form factor.


=== iPad Air ===

The first generation of iPad Air was announced on October 22, 2013, and released on November 1. It used an Apple A7 chip with an embedded Apple M7 Motion coprocessor; the chip included over a billion transistors and comprised a 2× faster CPU and GPU. It debuted the 802.11n-based MINO technology used in its Wi-Fi connectivity, and it had an extended range of LTE telecommunication. It also came with a Retina Display.
The second generation of iPad Air was announced on October 16, 2014, and released on October 22. It used an Apple A8X chip with a 2.5× faster CPU. Its 8MP iSight Camera had 1.12-micron pixels and a f/2.4 aperture, while its FaceTime Camera had f/2.2 aperture and 81% light capacity. Its display had a revised 56% lower reflective rate. It also had an extended range of LTE telecommunication service.
The third generation of iPad Air was announced on March 18, 2019, and released on March 25. It used an Apple A12 Bionic with an embedded Neural Engine, 6-core CPU and 4-core GPU. Its 866 Mbit/s WiFi connectivity are LTE-based, and it is equipped with a 1080p HD video camera.
The fourth generation of iPad Air was announced on September 15, 2020, and released on October 23. It used an Apple A14 Bionic chip, which comprised 11.9 billion transistors, a 40% faster 6-core CPU, a 30% faster 4-core GPU, and an embedded Neural Engine that can process 11 trillion operations per second. Its 10.9-inch Liquid Retina Screen display has a resolution of 2360 by 1640 pixels (3.8 million pixels). Its front 7-megapixel Facetime Camera is of 1080p and 60 fps, while its 12-megapixel webcam featured 8 aperture, 4K, 60fps, and video stabilization. The fourth generation iPad Air replaces the Lightning connector with USB-C.
The fifth generation of iPad Air was announced on March 8, 2022, and released on March 18. It used an Apple M1 chip.
The sixth generation of iPad Air was announced on May 7, 2024, with the general availability on May 15. It used an Apple M2 chip. It is the first iPad Air to have the available two display size options including 11-inch and 13-inch. It features the Apple Pencil hover which is previously featured on the iPad Pro (6th generation) and the landscape oriented front-facing camera which is previously used on the tenth-generation iPad. Like the iPad Pro (7th generation), it is only compatible with the Apple Pencil Pro alongside the lower-entry Apple Pencil with USB-C port, making it incompatible with the Apple Pencil (2nd generation). Unlike the iPad Pro (7th generation), it is only compatible with the Magic Keyboard that was designed for the iPad Pro 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th generations.
The seventh generation of iPad Air was announced on March 4, 2025, and was released on March 12. It uses the Apple M3 chip.


=== iPad Pro ===

The first generation of the high-end and professional flagship iPad Pro was announced on September 9, 2015, and released on November 11, (12.9-inch version) and March 31 (9.7-inch). It used an Apple A9X chip, with a 2× higher memory bandwidth and a 1.8× faster CPU than its predecessor. Its audio system consisted of 4 audio ports and its volume were more 3× more efficient than the second generation of iPad Air, and its 12-inch screen display had a resolution of 2732 by 2043 pixels.
The second generation of iPad Pro was announced on June 5, 2017, and was released on June 13. It used an Apple A10X chip, with a 6-core CPU and 12-core GPU. It can process 120 Hz HDR quality medias, 2× higher quality than its predecessor. Its ultra-low reflective Retina Display featured a 50% optimized True Tone technology (which automatically adjust the screen accordingly to its ambient color and brightness rates), Wide Color Integration, and up to 500 nit brightness rates. It also had a 12-megapixel rear-facing camera and a 7-megapixel front-facing camera.
The third generation of iPad Pro was announced on October 30, 2018, and released on November 7, and it is the first iPad to support 1 TB of storage. It used a 7 nm Apple A12X Bionic chip, which comprised 11 billion transistors, an 8-core CPU, 7-core GPU and an embedded Neural Engine capable of processing 5 trillion operations per second. Apple replaced the Touch ID fingerprint recognition biometric authentication with its facial counterpart, Face ID.
The fourth generation of iPad Pro was announced and released on March 18, 2020. It used an Apple A12Z chip, with an 8-core CPU and 8-core GPU. Its Gbit-class Wi-Fi connectivity is 60% faster than that of its predecessor. It introduced a 10-megapixel ultra-wide camera, alongside its 12-megapixel wide camera, capable of capturing 4k video. These cameras allow it to capture medias with wider visibility, and its audio system automatically detects and attracts any orientation nearby.
The fifth generation of iPad Pro was announced on April 20, 2021, and released on May 21. It used an innovative desktop-class Apple M1 chip, which comprised a 40% faster 8-core CPU, a 4× faster 8-core GPU, and a 4× higher bandwidth. It featured a ƒ/1.8 aperture 12-megapixel wide-angle pro camera (captures high quality shots) and a ƒ/2.4 aperture 10-megapixel ultrawide camera (captures enhanced Augmented Reality interactive experience). It debuted Apple's "Center Stage mode" technology, which pinpoints the positions of the users and automatically tracks the camera view accordingly to perspectivally centralize them. The 12.9-inch version had a mini LED-based Liquid Retina XDR display, compared to the 11-inch model's lesser IPS LCD-based Liquid Retina display.
The sixth generation of iPad Pro was announced on October 18, 2022, and released on October 26. It used an Apple M2 chip, with an 8-core CPU and 10-core GPU.
The seventh generation of iPad Pro was announced on May 7, 2024, a release on May 15, 2024. It uses an Apple M4, making it the first Apple device to use this chip. It is the first iPad Pro to use OLED display, called Ultra XDR Retina Display. The chassis design is about 5.3mm thin on the 11-inch model and 5.1mm thin on the 13-inch model, thinner than previous models. It features a Tandem OLED display, an updated Pro Cameras (which lacks the ultra-wide camera lens), and a landscape oriented front-facing camera, previously used in the iPad (10th generation). It is only compatible with the Apple Pencil Pro, the lower-entry Apple Pencil with USB-C port and the new, thinner Magic Keyboard, making it incompatible with the Apple Pencil (2nd generation) and the Magic Keyboard that was designed for the 3rd through 6th generations.


== Hardware ==


=== Overview ===
  


=== Cellular connectivity ===
The iPad comes in two variants: Wi-Fi only and Wi-Fi with cellular support. Unlike the iPhone, the cellular variant did not support voice calls and text messages, but only data connectivity; it also had an additional micro-SIM circuit slot attached on the side. The 3G-based iPad is compatible with any GSM carrier, unlike the iPhone which is usually sold 'locked' to specific carriers. For the first generation of iPad, cellular access from T-Mobile was limited to slower EDGE cellular speeds because T-Mobile's network at the time used different frequencies.
The second generation of iPad introduced a third tier of CDMA support from Verizon, which is available separately from the AT&T-based version. The fifth generation of iPad used a nano-SIM circuit slot, while its predecessors used micro-SIM. The iPads used two frequency bands; both support the same quad-band GSM and quad-band UMTS frequencies. One supports LTE bands 4 and 17 (principally intended for use on the U.S. AT&T network), and the other supports LTE bands 1, 3, 5, 13, 25 and CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B.
Apple extended the range of cellular compatibilities worldwide with the release of the fifth generation of iPad and the second generation of iPad Mini, worldwide and all major carriers across North America. The iPad Air and iPad Mini come in two cellular sub-variants, all of which featured nano-SIMs, quad-band GSM, penta-band UMTS, and dual-band CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and B. One supports LTE bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25 and 26, and the other supports LTE bands 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 18, 19, 20 and TD-LTE bands 38, 39 and 40.


== Accessories ==

Apple offers many accessories for its iPad models, ranging from keyboards, styluses, cases, to adapters; a 10 W power adapter is bundled with the device. In addition to a camera connection kit which consists of two adapters for the iPad's dock connector, one of USB Type A and one of SD card reader; these adapters can transfer photographs and videos and connect USB audio card and MIDI keyboard.
Apple's list of accessories included the Apple Pencil ― a wireless stylus pen, Smart Cover ― a magnetic screen protector that align to the face of an iPad with three folds that is convertible into a stand, Smart Case ― a fine case combining the functions of a Smart Cover and a back-protection case, Smart Keyboard Folio ― an externally-paired keyboard and a combination of a Smart Case and its predecessor, a Smart Keyboard, Magic Keyboard, ― an externally-paired keyboard similar to the formers but with integrated trackpads which the Smart Keyboard Folio and Smart Keyboard lack.


== Software ==

Since its introduction in 2010, the iPad runs on the iPhone's iOS mobile operating system, but it was later replaced with an optimized derivation, iPadOS, in September 2019. It shares the former's development environment and many of its applications and features. The iPad is compatible with nearly every iPhone application through iOS, and developers can optimize these applications to take full advantage of the iPad's software. They used iOS SDK, a software development kit.
The iOS user interface is based upon direct manipulation, using multi-touch gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch. Interface control elements include sliders, switches, and buttons. Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device (one common result is the undo command) or rotating it in three dimensions (one common result is switching between portrait and landscape mode). Various accessibility described in § Accessibility functions enable users with vision and hearing disabilities to properly use iOS.
iOS devices boot to the homescreen, the primary navigation and information "hub" on iOS devices, analogous to the desktop found on personal computers. iOS homescreens are typically made up of app icons and widgets; app icons launch the associated app, whereas widgets display live, auto-updating content, such as a weather forecast, the user's email inbox, or a news ticker directly on the homescreen.
Along the top of the screen is a status bar, showing information about the device and its connectivity. The status bar itself contains two elements, the Control Center and the Notification Center.
iOS' Control Center can be "pulled" down from the top right of the notch, giving access to various toggles to manage the device more quickly without having to open the Settings. It is possible to manage brightness, volume, wireless connections, music player, etc. A homescreen may be made up of several pages, between which the user can swipe back and forth, one of the ways to do this is to hold down on the "dots" shown on each page and swipe left or right. To the right of the last page, the App Library lists and categorizes apps installed on the device. Apps within each category are arranged based on the frequency of their usage. In addition to a category for suggested apps, a "recent" category lists apps recently installed alongside App Clips recently accessed. Users can search for the app they want or browse them in alphabetical order.
iOS' multitasking API included Background audio – application continues to run in the background as long as it is playing audio or video content, voice over IP – application is suspended when a phone call is not in progress, Push notification, Local notifications – application schedules local notifications to be delivered at a predetermined time, Task completion – application asks the system for extra time to complete a given task, Fast app switching – application does not execute any code and may be removed from memory at any time, Newsstand – applications can download content in the background to be ready for the uses, External Accessory – application communicates with an external accessory and shares data at regular intervals, Bluetooth Accessory – application communicates with a Bluetooth accessory and shares data at regular intervals, and Background application update.
iPadOS features a multitasking system developed with more capabilities compared to iOS, with features like Slide Over and Split View that make it possible to use multiple different applications simultaneously. Double-clicking the Home Button or swiping up from the bottom of the screen and pausing will display all currently active spaces. Each space can feature a single app, or a Split View featuring two apps. The user can also swipe left or right on the Home Indicator to go between spaces at any time, or swipe left/right with four fingers.
In iPadOS, while using an app, swiping up slightly from the bottom edge of the screen will summon the Dock, where apps stored within can be dragged to different areas of the current space to be opened in either Split View or Slide Over. Dragging an app to the left or right edge of the screen will create a Split View, which will allow both apps to be used side by side. The size of the two apps in Split View can be adjusted by dragging a pill-shaped icon in the center of the vertical divider and dragging the divider all the way to one side of the screen closes the respective app. If the user drags an app from the dock over the current app, it will create a floating window called Slide Over which can be dragged to either the left or right side of the screen. A Slide Over window can be hidden by swiping it off the right side of the screen, and swiping left from the right edge of the screen will restore it. Slide Over apps can also be cycled between by swiping left or right on the Home Indicator in the Slide Over window and pulling up on it will open an app switcher for Slide Over windows. A pill-shaped icon at the top of apps in Split View or Slide Over allows them to be switched in an out of Split View and Slide Over.


== Restrictions ==


=== Digital rights management ===

The iPad does not employ digital rights management (DRM), but the OS prevents users from copying or transferring certain content outside of Apple's platform without authorization, such as TV shows, movies, and apps. Also, the iPad's development model requires anyone creating an app for the iPad to sign a non-disclosure agreement and pay for a developer subscription. Critics argue Apple's centralized app approval process and control of the platform itself could stifle software innovation. Of particular concern to digital rights advocates is Apple's ability to remotely disable or delete apps on any iPad at any time.
Digital rights advocates, including the Free Software Foundation, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and computer engineer and activist Brewster Kahle, have criticized the iPad for its digital rights restrictions.
In an article published by NPR in April 2010, Laura Sydell, concluded that "as more consumers have fears about security on the Internet, viruses, and malware, they may be happy to opt for Apple's gated community."
In 2014, the Russian government switched from iPads to Android devices over security concerns.


=== Jailbreaking ===

Like other iOS devices, the iPad can be "jailbroken", depending on which version of iOS or iPadOS it is running, thus allowing applications and programs that are not authorized by Apple to run on the device. Once it is jailbroken, users are able to download many applications previously unavailable through the App Store via unofficial installers such as Cydia, as well as illegally pirated applications. Apple claims jailbreaking "can" void the factory warranty on the device in the United States even though jailbreaking is legal. The iPad, released in April 2010, was first jailbroken in May 2010 with the Spirit jailbreak for iOS version 3.1.2. The iPad can be jailbroken on iOS versions 4.3 through 4.3.3 with the web-based tool JailbreakMe 3.0 (released in July 2011), and on iOS versions including 5.0 and 5.0.1 using redsn0w. Absinthe 2.0 was released on May 25, 2012, as the first jailbreak method for all iOS 5.1.1 devices except the 32 nm version of the iPad 2.


=== Censorship ===
Apple's App Store, which provides iPhone and iPad applications, imposes censorship of content, which has become an issue for book publishers and magazines seeking to use the platform. The British newspaper The Guardian described the role of Apple as analogous to that of British magazine distributor WH Smith, which for many years imposed content restrictions.
Due to the exclusion of pornography from the App Store, pornography companies changed their software to produce content designed specifically for the iPad. In an e-mail exchange with Ryan Tate from Valleywag, Steve Jobs claimed that the iPad offers "freedom from porn", leading to many upset replies including Adbustings in Berlin by artist Johannes P. Osterhoff and in San Francisco during WWDC10.


== Original reception ==
Media reaction to the original iPad was mixed. The media noted the positive response from fans of the device, with thousands of people queued on the first day of sale in a number of these countries.
The iPad was quickly successful and sold in large numbers after its 2010 launch. Analysts have noted that while Apple's previous iPod and iPhone launches took some time till taking off, the iPad was commercially popular from the beginning and faced little market competition during its first year.


=== Reaction to the announcement ===
Media reaction to the announcement of the original iPad was mixed. Walter Mossberg wrote, "It's about the software, stupid", meaning hardware features and build are less important to the iPad's success than software and user interface, his first impressions of which were largely positive. Mossberg also called the price "modest" for a device of its capabilities, and praised the ten-hour battery life. Others, including PC Advisor and the Sydney Morning Herald, wrote that the iPad would also compete with proliferating netbooks, most of which use Microsoft Windows. The base model's $499 price was lower than pre-release estimates by the tech press, Wall Street analysts, and Apple's competitors, all of whom were expecting a much higher entry price point.
CNET also criticized the iPad for its apparent lack of wireless sync which other portable devices such as Microsoft's Zune have had for a number of years. The built-in iTunes app is able to download from the Internet as well.


=== Critical response ===
Reviews of the original iPad have been generally favorable. Walt Mossberg, then of The Wall Street Journal, called it a "pretty close" laptop killer. David Pogue of The New York Times wrote a "dual" review, one part for technology-minded people, and the other part for non-technology-minded people. In the former section, he notes that a laptop offers more features for a cheaper price than the iPad. In his review for the latter audience, however, he claims that if his readers like the concept of the device and can understand what its intended uses are, then they will enjoy using the device. PC Magazine's Tim Gideon wrote, "you have yourself a winner" that "will undoubtedly be a driving force in shaping the emerging tablet landscape." Michael Arrington of TechCrunch said, "the iPad beats even my most optimistic expectations. This is a new category of device. But it also will replace laptops for many people." PC World criticized the iPad's file sharing and printing abilities, and Ars Technica said sharing files with a computer is "one of our least favorite parts of the iPad experience."
The media also praised the quantity of applications, as well as the bookstore and other media applications. In contrast they criticized the iPad for being a closed system and mentioned that the iPad faces competition from Android-based tablets, that outsold iPads in 2013, surpassing iPads in the second quarter of 2013, and have overtaken iPad's installed base, and has lost majority of web browsing to Android, by StatCounter estimates, in South America, Africa, most of Asia – many large countries there and in Eastern Europe. The Independent criticized the iPad for not being as readable in bright light as paper but praised it for being able to store large quantities of books. After its UK release, The Daily Telegraph said the iPad's lack of Adobe Flash support was "annoying."


=== Recognition ===
The original iPad was selected by Time magazine as one of the 50 Best Inventions of the Year 2010, while Popular Science chose it as the top gadget behind the overall "Best of What's New 2010" winner Groasis Waterboxx.


== Usage ==


=== Market share ===

The iPad had a relatively stable tablet global market share. It received a significant drop in the third quarter of 2012 but gradually recovered, although not as abundant as before. As of the third quarter of 2021, it had a market share of 34.6%.


=== Business ===
While the iPad is mostly used by consumers, it also has been taken up by business users. Within 90 days of its release, the iPad managed to penetrate 50% of Fortune 100 companies. Some companies are adopting iPads in their business offices by distributing or making available iPads to employees. Examples of uses in the workplace include attorneys responding to clients, medical professionals accessing health records during patient exams, and managers approving employee requests.
A survey by Frost & Sullivan shows that iPad usage in office workplaces is linked to the goals of increased employee productivity, reduced paperwork, and increased revenue. The research firm estimates that "The mobile-office application market in North America may reach $6.85 billion in 2015, up from an estimated $1.76 billion [in 2010]."
Since March 2011, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved the iPad for in-cockpit use to cut down on the paper consumption in several airlines. In 2011, Alaska Airlines became the first airline to replace pilots' paper manuals with iPads, weighing 0.68 kg (1.5 lb) compared to 11 kg (24 lb) for the printed flight manuals. It hopes to have fewer back and muscle injuries. More than a dozen airlines have followed suit, including United, which has distributed 11,000 iPads to cockpits. Also, many airlines now offer their inflight magazine as a downloadable application for the iPad.


=== Education and healthcare ===
The iPad has several uses in the classroom, and has been praised as a valuable tool for homeschooling and distance education. Soon after the iPad was released, it was reported that 81% of the top book apps were for children. The iPad has also been called a revolutionary tool to help children with autism learn how to communicate and socialize more easily.
In the healthcare field, iPads and iPhones have been used to help hospitals manage their supply chain. For example, Novation, a healthcare contracting services company, developed VHA PriceLynx (based on the mobile application platform of business intelligence software vendor MicroStrategy), a business intelligence app to help health care organizations manage its purchasing procedures more efficiently and save money for hospitals. Guillermo Ramas of Novation states, "Doctors won't walk around a hospital with a laptop. With an iPad it's perfect to walk around the hospital with as long as they have the information they need."
In 2013, Gianna Chien (aged 14) presented to more than 8,000 doctors at the Heart Rhythm Society meeting that the Apple iPad 2 can, in some cases, interfere with life-saving heart devices (pacemakers) because of the magnets inside. The iPad User Guide advised pacemaker users to keep iPads at least 6 in (15 cm) away from the pacemaker. A study in 2014 found that the iPad 2 could cause electromagnetic interference (EMI) in implantable cardioverter defibrillators.


=== Consumer usage ===
In the United States, fans attending Super Bowl XLV, the first Super Bowl since the iPad was released, could use an official National Football League (NFL) app to navigate Cowboys Stadium. In 2011, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers became the first NFL club to discontinue the use of paper copies of playbooks, and instead distributed all players their playbook and videos in electronic format via an iPad 2.
The iPad is able to support many music creation applications in addition to the iTunes music playback software. These include sound samplers, guitar and voice effects processors, sequencers for synthesized sounds and sampled loops, virtual synthesizers and drum machines, theremin-style and other touch responsive instruments, drum pads and many more. Gorillaz's 2010 album, The Fall, was created almost exclusively using the iPad by Damon Albarn while on tour with the band. The music video for Luna Sea's 2012 single, "Rouge", was filmed entirely on an iPad.
Due to its popularity, the term "iPad" is occasionally used as a generic name for tablet computers.


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== See also ==
List of Apple Inc. media events
Comparison of e-readers
Comparison of tablet computers
Microsoft Surface
Pen computing


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Every iPad Generation: A Full History of Release Dates. IGN. Accessed on October 4, 2024.

# IPad (1st generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(1st_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:24

The first-generation iPad (; EYE-pad) (retrospectively referred to unofficially as the iPad 1 or original iPad) is a tablet computer designed and marketed by Apple Inc. as the first device in the iPad lineup of tablet computers. It features an Apple A4 SoC, a 9.7 in (250 mm) touchscreen display, and, on certain variants, the capability of accessing cellular networks. Using the iOS operating system, the iPad can play music, send and receive emails and browse the web. Other functions, which include the ability to play games and access references, GPS navigation software and social network services, can be enabled by downloading apps.
The device was announced and unveiled on January 27, 2010, by Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO, at an Apple press event. On April 3, 2010, the Wi-Fi variant of the device was released in the United States, followed by the release of the "Wi-Fi + 3G" variant on April 30. On May 28, 2010, it was released in Australia, Canada, France, Japan, Italy, Germany, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
The device received positive reviews from various technology blogs and publications. Reviewers praised the device for its wide range of capabilities and labeled it as a competitor to laptops and netbooks. Some aspects were criticized, including the closed nature of the operating system and the lack of support for the Adobe Flash multimedia format. During the first 80 days, 3 million iPads were sold. By the launch of the iPad 2, Apple had sold more than 15 million iPads.
On March 2, 2011, the first-generation iPad was discontinued following Apple's announcement of the iPad 2. Remaining stock of the first iPad were temporarily available from Apple at reduced price.


== History ==

Apple co-founder Steve Jobs stated in a 1983 speech about the company:

"[Our] strategy is really simple. What we want to do at Apple, is we want to put an incredibly great computer in a book that you can carry around with you and learn how to use in 20 minutes ... And we really want to do it with a radio link in it so you don't have to hook up to anything and you're in communication with all of these larger databases and other computers."
Apple's first tablet computer was the Newton MessagePad 100, introduced in 1993, which led to the creation of the ARM6 processor core with Acorn Computers. Apple also developed a prototype PowerBook Duo-based tablet, the PenLite, but decided not to sell it in order to avoid hurting MessagePad sales. Apple released several more Newton-based PDAs; the final one, the MessagePad 2100, was discontinued in 1998.
Apple reentered the mobile-computing market in 2007 with the iPhone. Smaller than the (not yet announced) iPad and featuring a camera and mobile capabilities, it pioneered the multitouch finger-sensitive touchscreen interface of Apple's iOS mobile operating system.
By late 2009, the iPad's release had been rumored for several years. Such speculation mostly talked about "Apple's tablet"; specific names included iTablet and iSlate. The actual name is reportedly an homage to the Star Trek PADD, a fictional device very similar in appearance to the iPad.
The iPad was announced on January 27, 2010, by Jobs at an Apple press conference at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco.
Jobs later said that Apple began developing the iPad before the iPhone, but temporarily shelved the effort upon realizing that its ideas would work just as well in a mobile phone. The iPad's internal codename was K48, which was revealed in the court case surrounding leaking of iPad information before launch.
Apple began taking pre-orders for the iPad from US customers on March 12, 2010. The only major change to the device between its announcement and being available to pre-order was the change of the behavior of the side switch from sound muting to that of a screen rotation lock. The Wi-Fi version of the iPad went on sale in the United States on April 3, 2010. The Wi-Fi + 3G version was released on April 30. 3G service for the iPad in the United States is provided by AT&T and was initially sold with 2 prepaid contract-free data plan options: 1 for unlimited data and the other for 250 MB per month at 1/2 the price. On June 2, 2010, AT&T announced that, effective June 7, the unlimited plan would be replaced for new customers with a 2 GB plan at slightly lower cost; existing customers would have the option to keep the unlimited plan. The plans are activated on the iPad itself and can be cancelled at any time.
The iPad was initially only available for purchase on Apple's online store and its retail locations; it has since become available through retailers including Amazon, Walmart, and network operators. The iPad was launched in countries including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom on May 28. Online pre-orders in those countries began on May 10. Apple released the iPad in Hong Kong, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand and Singapore on July 23, 2010. Israel briefly prohibited importation of the iPad because of concerns that its Wi-Fi might interfere with other devices. On September 17, 2010, the iPad was officially launched in Mainland China.


== Features ==


=== Software ===
The iPad originally shipped with iPhone OS 3.2. On September 1, 2010, it was announced the iPad would get iOS 4.2 by November 2010; to fulfill this, Apple released iOS 4.2.1 to the public on November 22. (This update brought important features to the first-generation iPad, including multitasking capabilities and the introduction of app folders for better organization.) It comes with several applications, including Safari, Mail, Photos, Video, iPod, iTunes Store, App Store, Maps, Notes, Calendar, and Contacts. Several are improved versions of applications developed for the iPhone or Mac.
The iPad syncs with iTunes on a Mac or Windows PC. Apple ported its iWork suite from the Mac to the iPad, and sells pared-down versions of Pages, Numbers, and Keynote apps in the App Store. Although the iPad isn't designed to replace a mobile phone, a user can use a wired headset or the built-in speaker and microphone to place phone calls over Wi-Fi or 3G using a VoIP application.
On October 12, 2011, iOS 5 was released to various iOS devices, including the first-generation iPad, and was downloadable through iTunes. The update was reported to contain hundreds of new features and tweaks, including Twitter integration, the Notification Center and iMessage, which is a feature that allows users to send messages or multimedia files to other users on iOS or OS X, the operating system for Apple computers. iCloud, an iOS app and Apple-provided internet storage service which allows users to sync and backup their user data and settings to/from other devices, was also made available through this update.
On June 11, 2012, Apple announced the iOS 6 update – which brought several new features, like: 

A redesigned Maps app (replacing Google Maps with Apple's own)
Passbook (later known as Wallet)
Facebook integration
FaceTime over cellular
A full-screen Safari experience
The Clock app for iPad (new for iPads in iOS 6)
Enhanced Siri functionality
However, the first-generation iPad did not receive this update due to hardware limitations, making iOS 5.1.1 the last update officially available for the device.


=== Hardware ===

The first-generation iPad features an Apple A4 SoC, which comprises a 1 GHz processor, 256 MB of RAM and a PowerVR SGX535 GPU. There are four physical switches on the iPad, including a home button near the display that returns the user to the main menu, and three plastic physical switches on the sides: wake/sleep and volume up/down, plus a software-controlled switch whose function has changed with software updates. Originally the switch locked the screen to its current orientation, but iOS 4.2 changed it to a mute switch, moving the rotation lock function to an onscreen menu. In the iOS 4.3 update, a setting was added to allow the user to specify whether the side switch was used for rotation lock or mute. Unlike its successors, the first-generation iPad has no cameras.
The iPad's touchscreen display is a 1,024 by 768 pixel, 7.75 × 5.82 in (197 × 148 mm) liquid crystal display (diagonal 9.7 in (246.4 mm)), with fingerprint- and scratch-resistant glass. As a result of the device's screen dimensions and resolution, the screen has a pixel density of 132 ppi. The display responds to other sensors: an ambient light sensor to adjust screen brightness and a 3-axis accelerometer to sense the iPad's orientation and switch between portrait and landscape modes. Unlike the iPhone and iPod Touch's built-in applications, which work in 3 orientations (portrait, landscape-left and landscape-right), the iPad's built-in applications support screen rotation in all four orientations, including upside-down. Consequently, the device has no intrinsic "native" orientation; only the relative position of the home button changes.
The iPad was equipped with 16 GB, 32 GB, or 64 GB (1 GB = 1 billion bytes) of solid-state (flash) storage for program and data storage. Furthermore, the device was available with two connectivity options: Wi-Fi only or Wi-Fi and 3G. Unlike its successors, the Wi-Fi + 3G variant of the first-generation iPad could only support carriers that utilized GSM/UMTS standards and was not compatible with CDMA networks; however, like its successors, assisted GPS services are supported. Bluetooth was also available on all models.
The weight of the first-generation iPad varied, dependent upon the connectivity options chosen. The Wi-Fi only variant weighs 1.5 lb (680 g) whereas the variant with Wi-Fi + 3G weighs 1.6 lb (730 g). Its dimensions, however, are identical across the entire range of variants, measuring 9.56×7.47×0.5 in (243×190×13 mm).


=== Accessories ===

Apple offers several iPad accessories, most of which are adapters for the proprietary 30-pin dock connector, the iPad's only port besides the headphone jack. A dock holds the iPad upright at an angle, and has a dock connector and audio line-out port. Each generation of iPad requires a corresponding dock. A dock that included a physical keyboard was only supported for the original iPad, but all generations are compatible with Bluetooth keyboards that also work with Macs and PCs. The iPad can be charged with a 10 W standalone power adapter, which is also compatible with iPods and iPhones.


== Reception ==


=== Critical reception ===
Media reaction to the announcement of the device and the device itself was mixed. The media noted that thousands of people queued on the first day of sale in a number of countries with many of those who waited claiming that "it was worth it."
Walt Mossberg (of The Wall Street Journal) wrote, "It's about the software, stupid", meaning hardware features and build are less important to the iPad's success than software and user interface, his first impressions of which were largely positive. Mossberg also called the price "modest" for a device of its capabilities, and praised the ten-hour battery life. Others, including PC Advisor and the Sydney Morning Herald, wrote that the iPad would also compete with proliferating netbooks, most of which use Microsoft Windows. The base model's price of US$499 (equivalent to $720 in 2024) was lower than pre-release estimates by Wall Street analysts, and Apple's competitors, all of whom were expecting a much higher entry price point.
The media also praised the quantity of applications, as well as the bookstore and other media applications. In contrast, some sources, including the BBC, criticized the iPad for being a closed system and mentioned that the iPad faces competition from Android-based tablets. However, at the time of the first-generation iPad's launch, Yahoo! News noted that the Android tablet OS, known as "Honeycomb", was not open source and has fewer apps available for it than for the iPad; although later Google released the source code for Honeycomb. The Independent criticized the iPad for not being as readable in bright light as paper but praised it for being able to store large quantities of books. After its UK release, The Daily Telegraph said the iPad's lack of Adobe Flash support was "annoying".
The iPad was selected by Time magazine as one of the 50 Best Inventions of the Year 2010, while Popular Science chose it as the top gadget behind the overall "Best of What's New 2010" winner Groasis Waterboxx.


=== Commercial reception ===
300,000 iPads were sold on their first day of availability. By May 3, 2010, Apple had sold a million iPads; this was just half the time it took Apple to sell the same number of original iPhones. After passing the one million mark, they continued selling rapidly, reaching 3 million sales after 80 days. During the financial conference call on October 18, 2010, Steve Jobs announced that Apple had sold more iPads than Macs for the fiscal quarter. In total, Apple sold more than 15 million first-generation iPads prior to the launch of the iPad 2 – more than all other tablet PCs combined since the iPad's release, and reaching 75% of tablet PC sales at the end of 2010.


=== Criticism ===
CNET criticized the iPad for its apparent lack of wireless sync, which other portable devices such as Microsoft's Zune have had for a number of years.
Walt Mossberg called it a "pretty close" laptop killer. David Pogue of The New York Times wrote a "dual" review, one part for technology-minded people, and the other part for non-technology-minded people. In the former section, he notes that a laptop offers more features for a cheaper price than the iPad. In his review for the latter audience, however, he claims that if his readers like the concept of the device and can understand what its intended uses are, then they will enjoy using the device. PC Magazine's Tim Gideon wrote, "you have yourself a winner" that "will undoubtedly be a driving force in shaping the emerging tablet landscape." Michael Arrington of TechCrunch said, "the iPad beats even my most optimistic expectations. This is a new category of device. But it also will replace laptops for many people." PC World criticized the iPad's file sharing and printing abilities, and ArsTechnica critically noted that sharing files with a computer is "one of our least favorite parts of the iPad experience."
The lack of Adobe Flash support was criticized with The Daily Telegraph saying that the iPad's lack of Adobe Flash support was "annoying."


== See also ==
List of iPad accessories
E-book reader
Comparison of tablet computers


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

# IPad 2

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_2
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:27

The iPad 2 is a tablet developed and marketed by Apple Inc. Compared to the first iPad, as the second model in the iPad line, it gained a faster dual core A5 processor, a lighter build structure with a flat, rather than curved, back, and was the first iPad to feature VGA front-facing and 720p rear-facing cameras designed for FaceTime video calling.
The device was available initially with three storage sizes – 16, 32 and 64 GB – and two varying connectivity options – Wi-Fi only or Wi-Fi and cellular. Each variation of the device is available with either a black or white front glass panel. However, upon the release of the 3rd generation iPad in March 2012, only the 16 GB variation remained available.
The product became available in March through May 2011.
The device received generally positive reception from various blogs and publications. Although it was praised for its hardware improvement, such as the new Apple A5 chip, the software restriction on the iPad 2 and iOS in general drew criticism from various technology commentators. The device sold well in its first month of sales with 2.4–2.6 million units sold and 11.12 million units were sold in the third quarter of 2011.
A popular product, with a lower screen resolution and performance than the two Retina models that followed it but a lighter build and longer battery life, it remained in the Apple line-up as an entry-level iPad model for three years until March 2014, latterly with a silent upgrade to a die-shrunk version of the A5 processor. Its basic design formed the core of the first iPad Mini, which had the same screen pixel count and similar features at a smaller size.
Originally shipped with iOS 4.3, with the release of iOS 9, the iPad 2 became the only device powered by the Apple A5 to have received six major versions of iOS.


== History ==

Apple sent invitations to journalists on February 23, 2011, for a media event on March 2. On March 2, 2011, CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the device at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, despite being on medical leave. Upon the announcement of the iPad 2, the original iPad was discontinued from sales online and at Apple authorized retail stores.
Apple began selling the iPad 2 on its website on March 11, and in its U.S. retail stores at 5 pm local time on that date. Many stores in major cities, such as New York, sold out within hours. Online shipping delays had increased to three to four weeks on Sunday and four to five weeks by Tuesday.
The iPad 2 was released internationally in 25 other countries on March 25, 2011. The countries included Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Ireland, Hungary, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
The April 29, 2011 release date for Japan was postponed due to the earthquake and tsunami which struck the nation on March 11, 2011. The iPads were delayed due to the NAND flash storage chip used in the iPads being created by Toshiba, which was affected by the earthquake and tsunami thus resulting in the suspension of operations for an indefinite period of time. The slowdown caused analysts to downgrade Apple's stock.
The iPad 2 was later released in Hong Kong, India, South Korea, Singapore, Philippines, Malaysia and other countries including Japan on April 29, 2011. It was then released in numerous other nations which include China, Estonia, Thailand, Brazil, Russia and Taiwan on two major release dates, May 6 and 27.
The 32 and 64GB models were discontinued on March 7, 2012, upon the introduction of the third generation iPad. The 16GB Wi-Fi and 16GB Wi-Fi + 3G models were discontinued on March 18, 2014.


== Features ==


=== Software ===

In late March 2011, the iPad 2 was released alongside iOS 4.3, which primarily introduced Airplay Mirroring and Home Sharing among other features. On October 12, 2011, upon the release of the iPhone 4s, the iPad was upgradable to the iOS 5 firmware update which brought over 200 new user features to iOS compatible devices including Notification Center, iMessage, Reminders, and an updated notifications system, using a new "banner" style instead of the previously used pop-up "alert" style.
The iPad 2 comes with several applications by default, including Safari, Mail, Photos, Video, Music, iTunes Store, Maps, Notes, Calendar, Photo Booth, and Contacts. The App Store is also available as a default application, it enables users to download from a database of 800,000 applications, the price of these applications is set by the developers. Like all iOS devices, the iPad 2 can sync music, videos, apps and photos with a Mac or PC using iTunes, although when using iOS 5 and later, the user does not have to connect the iPad to the computer. iCloud also allows users to backup and sync their data with other compatible iOS devices via the internet. Game Center is available as a native social gaming platform on iOS, games downloaded via the App Store that have this feature enabled are able to integrate their achievement points, high-scores and bonus system across all iOS devices into a single accumulative points and social platform. Although the tablet is not designed to make phone calls over a cellular network, a user can use a wired headset or the built-in speaker and microphone and place phone calls over Wi-Fi or cellular using a VoIP application.
The iPad 2 also adds the ability to run GarageBand, iMovie, and the iWork apps Pages, Keynote, and Numbers. These applications do not come with the iPad but are instead official applications from Apple sold within the App Store. On March 7, 2012, after the unveiling of the third generation iPad, the firmware of the iPad 2 was upgradable to iOS 5.1. Scott Rohde, a senior Sony executive described the iPad as "a game console disguised as a device that can be appropriated in the business workplace."
On September 19, 2012, almost a week after the announcement of the iPhone 5, iOS 6 was released for numerous iOS devices, including the iPad 2 and iPhone 4s. However, on iOS 6, not all features are available on the iPad 2. The software upgrade was downloadable as an over the air (OTA) update package and contains two hundred new features, including a mapping software designed by Apple dubbed Apple Maps, a "Clock" app, which features a timer, stopwatch and alarm, and Facebook integration among other new features and tweaks.
The iPad 2 is compatible with iOS 7, which was released on September 18, 2013. However, some features are not available. For example, like the iPhone 4, the Notification Center and the Control Center use the transparent style instead of the translucent style in later iOS models. Also, AirDrop, which was first released in iOS 7, required the iPad (4th generation) or later.
The iPad 2 can run iOS 8, which was released on September 17, 2014, making it the first iOS device to run five major versions of iOS (including iOS 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8). While the OS runs on the device, most of its new features do not work because of relatively aged hardware and therefore, its performance is limited. Users have also reported numerous problems after receiving the update including the accessibility features and battery-related issues. Many users speculated that the iPad 2 was going to be dropped from updating to iOS 8 along with the iPhone 4, the same process that happened with the iPhone 3GS and the iPod Touch (fourth generation) and earlier models, considering that the model was more than 3 years old.
It was confirmed on June 8, 2015, at Apple's WWDC that the iPad 2 would run iOS 9, making it one of the only iOS devices to run six major versions of iOS. As with previous releases, though, several features were unavailable on the iPad 2, including Siri, translucency effects, split-view, slide-over and picture-in-picture multitasking and the Health app. iOS 9 is said to feature performance improvements that may help the aging device function more smoothly, and initial tests suggest that it did not significantly impact available space. Other A5-based devices will also run iOS 9 including the iPhone 4s (five major iOS versions), the iPad Mini (four major iOS versions) and iPod Touch (5th generation) (four major iOS versions).
On June 13, 2016, with the announcement of iOS 10, Apple dropped support for the iPad 2 due to hardware limitations and performance issues, making iOS 9.3.5 (Wi-Fi) or iOS 9.3.6 (Wi-Fi + Cellular) the final version that will run on the device.


==== "Broadpwn" exploit vulnerability ====
The iPad 2 is one of many computers, tablets, and mobile devices susceptible to the "Broadpwn" exploit, which was publicized in July 2017. Apple quickly released an update for iOS 10 to fix the problem, but a fix was never released for iOS 9 or earlier versions of iOS. As a result, older Apple devices incompatible with iOS 10, including the iPad 2, were left vulnerable indefinitely. This has raised concerns of potentially widespread attacks using the exploit, particularly in locations of concentrated iPad 2 deployment, such as certain primary and secondary schools.


==== 2019 GPS rollover update ====
On July 22, 2019, Apple released iOS 9.3.6 for the CDMA model of the iPad 2 to fix issues caused by the GPS week number rollover. The issues would impact accuracy of GPS location and set the device's date and time to an incorrect value, preventing connection to HTTPS servers and, consequently, Apple's servers for activation, iCloud and the iTunes and App stores. The WiFi model and the GSM model are not affected by the rollover as the WiFi model lacks a GPS chipset and the GSM model uses a different chipset.


=== Hardware ===

The iPad 2 features an Apple A5 package-on-package (PoP) System-on-chip (SoC), which comprises a 1 GHz dual-core 32-bit Cortex-A9 CPU, 512 MB of RAM and a dual-core PowerVR SGX543MP2 GPU. Other features include front and rear cameras, a three-axis gyroscope, headset controls, proximity and ambient light sensors, microphone, magnetometer, accelerometer and a 9.7 inch multi-touch screen with a maximum resolution of 1024×768 hence resulting in 132 ppi. The iPad 2 has four physical switches, including a home button near the display that returns the user to the home screen, and three plastic physical switches on the sides: wake/sleep, volume up/down, and a third switch for either screen rotation lock or mute. The home button on the iPad 2 is "easier to double tap" than the previous generation of the iPad. Apple reduced the size of the iPad by eliminating the stamped sheet metal frame from the display, integrating new thinner glass technology for the touch screen overlay, and slightly reducing the space between the display and battery. The iPad 2's screen is thinner, lighter, and yet stronger than the original iPad's. The iPad 2 also supports screen mirroring via the digital AV adapter and through AirPlay as of iOS 5.
The iPad 2 has a 25 W·h rechargeable lithium-ion polymer battery that lasts 10 hours, like the original iPad. It is charged via USB or included 10 W, 2 A power adapter. The battery is 2.5 mm thick, 59% smaller than the original and has three cells instead of two. The improvements allowed the injection-molded plastic support frame to be omitted. The 10 W USB power adapter provides 4x the power of a conventional USB port. The tablet has an audio frequency response of 20 Hz to 20 kHz. Without third-party software it can play the following audio formats: HE-AAC, AAC, Protected AAC, MP3, MP3 VBR, Audible formats (2, 3, 4, AEA, AAX, and AAX+), ALAC, AIFF, and WAV.
The revised tablet adds front- and rear-facing cameras, which allow FaceTime video calls with other iPad 2s, the third generation iPad, iPhone 4 and 4s, fourth-generation iPod Touch and Macintosh computers (running Mac OS X 10.6.6 or later with a webcam). The 0.3 MP front camera shoots VGA-quality 30 frame/s video and VGA-quality still photos. The 0.7 MP back camera can shoot 720p HD video at 30 frame/s and has a 5× times digital zoom. Both shoot photo in a 4:3 fullscreen aspect ratio. The rear camera shoots video in 16:9 widescreen to match the 720p standard, although only the central 4:3 part of the recording is shown on the screen during recording. The forward-facing camera shoots in 4:3.
The Apple A5 chip doubles processing speed and has graphics processing that is up to nine times faster than the previous iPad. However, benchtests and hardware assessments performed by various third party news sources and technology blogs indicate that those claims are exaggerated; the benchmark assessment conducted by Anandtech showed that the GPU of the iPad 2 is only 3 times faster than that of the original iPad. CPU benchmarks conducted on the iPad 2 by iOSnoops indicate a 66% performance increase compared to the original iPad.
3G versions of the iPad 2 offer CDMA2000 support for customers using the device on a CDMA network or GSM/UMTS support for customers using the device on a GSM/UMTS network. The iPad Wi-Fi + 3G model includes an A-GPS receiver for tracking the user's location given permission. Also, the iPad 2 3G model includes a plastic cap-like band at the top on the back for the 3G antenna. The metallic grille for the microphone is replaced with a matching plastic black grille on the 3G model.
GSM models of iPad 2 use a SIM card while CDMA models use an ESN to connect to the cellular network.
The device is 15% lighter and 33% thinner than the original iPad; it is thinner than the iPhone 4 by 0.5 mm. The Wi-Fi version is 1.33 lb (600 g). Both the GSM and CDMA versions (known respectively as the AT&T and Verizon versions in the US) differ in weight slightly due to the mass difference between the GSM and CDMA cellular radios, with the GSM model at 1.35 lb (612 g) and the CDMA model at 1.34 lb (608 g).
The size of the iPad 2 is also less than the original iPad at only 9.50 in ×7.31 in ×0.34 in (241.2 mm ×185.7 mm ×8.8 mm), compared to the original iPad's size at 9.56 in ×7.47 in ×0.5 in (242.8 mm ×189.7 mm ×13.4 mm).
After the announcement and release of the third generation iPad, the iPad 2, which continued to be available for purchase, received a hardware upgrade. The upgraded variant of the iPad 2 features a smaller version of the Apple A5 SoC, which is able to reduce battery consumption. Benchmark tests conducted by Anandtech concluded that the upgraded variant is able to last longer by at least an hour and a half, depending on the task that is conducted on the device. The maximum temperature that the device heated up to was also less than original iPad 2, tests conducted by the same organisation revealed that the upgraded variant was able to operate at 1 degree lower when performing intensive tasks. Performance difference between the two variants, according to Anandtech is negligible.


=== Accessories ===

The Smart Cover, first introduced with the iPad 2, is a screen protector that magnetically attaches to the face of the iPad. The cover has three folds which allow it to convert into a stand, which is also held together by magnets. While original iPad owners could purchase a black case that included a similarly folding cover, the Smart Cover is meant to be more minimal, easily detachable, and protects only the screen. Smart Covers have a microfiber bottom that cleans the front of the iPad, and wakes up the iPad when the cover is removed. There are five different colors of both polyurethane and leather, with leather being more expensive than the polyurethane version.
Apple offered several more accessories for the iPad 2, most of which were adapters for the proprietary 30-pin dock connector, the iPad's only port besides the headphone jack. A dock holds the iPad upright at an angle, and has a dock connector and audio line out port. The iPad can use Bluetooth keyboards that also work with Macs and PCs. The iPad can be charged by a standalone power adapter ("wall charger") also used for contemporary iPods and iPhones, and a 10 W charger was included with the iPad.


== Reception ==
The iPad 2 received generally positive reviews, praising its Apple A5 processor and 720p camera. Joshua Topolsky of Engadget said that "for those of you who haven't yet made the leap, feel free to take a deep breath and dive in – the iPad 2 is as good as it gets right now. And it's really quite good." Jason Snell of Macworld said the following:

"Though the iPad 2 is an improvement on the original iPad in numerous ways, it's still an evolutionary product, not a revolutionary one. If you're happy with your current iPad, there's no reason to dump it just because there's a shinier, newer one. (This is not to say that millions of people won't do just that. I mean: shiny!) If you've invested in iPad accessories such as a dock or case, keep in mind that you probably won't be able to use them with the new iPad."

TechCrunch's MG Siegler stated: "Let me sum all of this up in a simple way: the iPad 2, should you buy one? Maybe — it depends on a few factors. Will you want to buy one? Yes. Use that information wisely."


=== Criticism ===
The closed and proprietary nature of iOS has garnered criticism, particularly by digital rights advocates such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, computer engineer and activist Brewster Kahle, Internet-law specialist Jonathan Zittrain, and the Free Software Foundation who protested the iPad's introductory event and have targeted the iPad with their "Defective by Design" campaign. Competitor Microsoft, via a PR spokesman, has also criticized Apple's control over its platform.


=== Technical problems ===
At issue are restrictions imposed by the design of iOS, namely DRM intended to lock purchased media to Apple's platform, the development model (requiring a yearly subscription to distribute apps developed for the iOS), the centralized approval process for apps, as well as Apple's general control and lockdown of the platform itself. Particularly at issue is the ability for Apple to remotely disable or delete apps at will. Some in the tech community have expressed concern that the locked-down iOS represents a growing trend in Apple's approach to computing, particularly Apple's shift away from machines that hobbyists can "tinker with" and note the potential for such restrictions to stifle software innovation.
Some iPad 2 users reported performance issues when running iOS 8. Apple improved performance on the iPad 2 and the iPhone 4S on the iOS 8.1.1 update.


=== Commercial reception ===
During the first weekend of sale, more than one million units were sold. Soon after the first weekend, Ashok Kumar, a technology analyst for a financial firm predicted that Apple would sell 35 million iPad 2s in 2011. Investment banking firm, Piper Jaffray monitored the initial sales of the iPad 2 and reported that 70% of all iPad 2 sales were to first-time iPad buyers with 49% of buyers owning a PC compared to the initial buyers of the original iPad where only 26% of buyers owned a PC. 12,000 units were sold on auction site eBay in its first two weeks of release. When the iPhone 4S was released, rumors about the third generation iPad caused a decline in iPad 2 sales. Official figures released in the fourth quarter of 2011 indicate that Apple sold 11.4 million iPads in the third quarter, a 166% increase from the third quarter of 2010. The product helped create newer, larger markets for Apple in south east Asia.


=== In space ===
In 2011 two iPad 2 tablets were taken to the International Space Station after being approved. Other Apple products that were taken to ISS include the iPod and also two iPhone 4 phones. The other personal computing system aboard ISS were various versions of the ThinkPad laptop (IBM, later Lenovo brand).
Some of the applications the iPads were used for include the ISS FIT (International Space Station Food Intake Tracker) for tracking astronauts' food consumption.


== See also ==
iPad accessories
E-book reader
Comparison of tablet computers


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

# IPad (3rd generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(3rd_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:29

The iPad (3rd generation) (marketed as the new iPad, colloquially referred to as the iPad 3) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple Inc. It is the third device in the iPad line of tablets. It added a Retina Display, the new Apple A5X chip with a quad-core graphics processor, a 5-megapixel camera, HD 1080p video recording, voice dictation, and support for LTE networks in North America. It shipped with iOS 5, which provides a platform for audio-visual media, including electronic books, periodicals, films, music, computer games, presentations and web browsing.
Six variations of the third-generation iPad were offered, compared to nine in the United States and Canada, although some countries had only the Wi-Fi only model. Each variation was available with black or white front glass panels, with options for 16, 32, or 64 GB of storage. In North America, connectivity options were Wi-Fi only, Wi-Fi + 4G (LTE) on Verizon, AT&T, Telus, Rogers, or Bell. For the rest of the world outside North America, connectivity options are Wi-Fi only (on the Wi-Fi model) or Wi-Fi + 3G (on the Wi-Fi + Cellular model), with the latter unavailable in some countries, as 4G (LTE) connectivity for the device is not available outside North America. The Wi-Fi + Cellular model includes GPS capability.
Initially, the cellular version was titled and marketed worldwide as the "Wi-Fi + 4G" model, but due to regional differences in classification of 4G (LTE) connectivity outside of North America, Apple later rebranded and altered their marketing to call this the "Wi-Fi + Cellular" model.
The tablet was released in ten countries on March 16, 2012. It gained mostly positive reviews, earning praise for its Retina display, processor and 4G (LTE) capabilities. However, controversy arose when the LTE incompatibilities became known. Three million units were sold in the first three days.
After only seven months (221 days) of official availability, the third-generation iPad was discontinued on October 23, 2012, following the announcement of the fourth-generation iPad. The third-generation iPad had the shortest lifespan of any iOS product. It was the last iPad to support the 30-pin dock connector, as the fourth-generation to ninth-generation iPad use the Lightning connector.


== History ==
Speculation about the product began shortly after Apple released the iPad 2, which featured front and back cameras as well as a dual-core Apple A5 processor. Speculation increased after news of a 2,048-by-1,536 pixel screen leaked.
During this time, the tablet was called the "iPad 3", a colloquial name sometimes still used after the release. On February 9, 2012, John Paczkowski of All Things Digital stated that "Apple’s not holding an event in February—strange, unusual or otherwise. But it is holding one in March—to launch its next iPad."
Another common rumor at the time was that the tablet would have an Apple A6 processor.
On February 29, 2012, Apple announced a media event scheduled for March 7, 2012, at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts. The company did not predisclose the subject of the event, but analysts widely expected the event to announce a new version of the iPad. The announcement affected the tablet resale market positively.


=== Release ===
At the March 7 event, Apple CEO Tim Cook introduced iOS 5.1, a Japanese version of Siri, and the third-generation Apple TV before the third-generation iPad. Cook claimed that the new product would be one of the main contributors to the emerging "post-PC world"—a world in which digital life would not be tied to the PC.
The March 16, 2012, release included ten countries including Australia, Canada, France, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. The March 23, 2012, release included many European countries, Mexico and Macau. The April 20, 2012, release added a dozen countries including South Korea and Malaysia. The April 27, 2012, release added nine more countries, including India and South Africa. May 2012 releases added 31 countries, including Brazil and Turkey.


=== Discontinued ===
On October 23, 2012, upon the announcement of the fourth-generation iPad, the third-generation iPad was discontinued. In response to criticism from its owners, the return policy of select Apple Stores was briefly extended to thirty days to allow customers to exchange the third-generation model for the fourth-generation model.


== Features ==


=== Software ===

The third-generation iPad shipped with iOS 5.1, which was released on March 7, 2012. It can act as a hotspot with some carriers, sharing its internet connection over Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or USB, providing that it is a Wi-Fi + Cellular model. It can also access the App Store, a digital application distribution platform for iOS developed and maintained by Apple. The service allows users to browse and download applications from the iTunes Store that were developed with Xcode and the iOS SDK and were published through Apple. From the App Store, GarageBand, iMovie, iPhoto, and the iWork apps (Pages, Keynote, and Numbers) are available.
The iPad comes with several pre-installed applications, including Safari, Mail, Photos, Videos, YouTube, Music, iTunes, App Store, Maps, Notes, Calendar, Game Center, Photo Booth, and Contacts. Like all iOS devices, the iPad can sync content and other data with a Mac or PC using iTunes, although iOS 5 and later can be managed and backed up without a computer. Although the tablet is not designed to make phone calls over a cellular network, users can use a headset or the built-in speaker and microphone and place phone calls over Wi-Fi or cellular using a VoIP application, such as Skype. The device has dictation, using the same voice recognition technology as the iPhone 4S. The user speaks and the iPad types what they say on the screen provided that the iPad is connected to a Wi-Fi or cellular network.
The third-generation device has an optional iBooks application, which displays books and other EPUB-format content downloaded from the iBookstore. Several major book publishers including Penguin Books, HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster and Macmillan have committed to publishing books for the device. Despite being a direct competitor to both the Amazon Kindle and Barnes & Noble Nook, both Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble offer e-reader apps for the iPad.
On September 19, 2012, iOS 6, which contains 200 new features, was released. The iOS 6 update includes new features such as Apple Maps, which replaced a mapping application operated by Google, Facebook integration and the ability to operate Siri on the third-generation iPad.
The third-generation iPad is compatible with iOS 7, which was released in 2013. Although complete support, some newer features such as AirDrop that were released to newer models were not supported. This is the similar support that was also given on the iPhone 4S.
iOS 8 is also supported by the third-generation iPad. However, some features have been stripped down.
iOS 9 supports the third-generation iPad as well. It is the fifth major iOS release that this model supports. The iOS 9 public beta was also compatible with it. This model has been supported for more than 4 years.
iOS 9.3.5 is the latest and final version to support the Wi-Fi only iPad 3rd generation model while the Wi-Fi + Cellular models run iOS 9.3.6. The third-generation iPad does not support iOS 10 due to hardware limitations and performance issues.


==== 2019 GPS rollover update ====
On July 22, 2019, Apple released iOS 9.3.6 for the WiFi + Cellular models of the third-generation iPad to fix issues caused by the GPS Week Number Rollover. The issues would impact accuracy of GPS location and set the device's date and time to an incorrect value, preventing connection to HTTPS servers and, consequently, Apple's servers for activation, iCloud and the iTunes and App stores. The WiFi model is not affected by the rollover as it lacks a GPS chipset.


=== Jailbreaking ===

Researchers demonstrated within hours of the product release that the third-generation iPad can be "jailbroken" to use applications and programs that are not authorized by Apple. The third-generation iPad can be jailbroken with Redsn0w 0.9.12 or Absinthe 2.0. Jailbreaking violates the factory warranty. One of the main reasons for jailbreaking is to expand the feature set limited by Apple and its App Store. Most jailbreaking tools automatically install Cydia, a native iOS APT client used for finding and installing software for jailbroken iOS devices. Many apps unapproved by Apple are extensions and customizations for iOS and other apps. Users install these programs to personalize and customize the interface, adding desired features and fixing annoyances, and simplify app development by providing access to the filesystem and command-line tools.


=== Hardware ===

The device has an Apple A5X SoC with a 1 GHz dual-core 32-bit Cortex-A9 CPU and a quad-core PowerVR SGX543MP4 GPU; 1 GB of RAM; a 5-megapixel, rear-facing camera capable of 1080p video recording; and a VGA front-facing videophone camera designed for FaceTime. The display resolution is 2,048 by 1,536 (QXGA) with 3.1 million pixels—four times more than the iPad 2—providing even scaling from the prior model.
The new iPad is thicker than its predecessor by 0.6 mm and is heavier by 51 grams for the Wi-Fi model (652 grams).
The Wi-Fi + Cellular models (both at 662 grams) are 49 grams heavier for the AT&T model and 55 grams heavier for the Verizon model compared to the respective iPad 2 3G models (AT&T 3G iPad 2 is 613 grams, and Verizon 3G iPad 2 is 607 grams).
There are four physical switches on the third-generation iPad, including a home button near the display that returns the user to the home screen, and three plastic switches on the sides: wake/sleep and volume up/down, plus a software-controlled switch whose function varies with software update. The display responds to other sensors: an ambient light sensor to adjust screen brightness and a 3-axis accelerometer to sense orientation and to switch between portrait and landscape modes. Unlike the iPhone and iPod Touch's built-in applications, which work in three orientations (portrait, landscape-left and landscape-right), the iPad's built-in applications support screen rotation in all four orientations, including upside-down. Consequently, the device has no intrinsic "native" orientation; only the relative position of the home button changes.
The tablet is manufactured either with or without the capability to communicate over a cellular network; all models can connect to a wireless LAN. The third-generation iPad optionally has 16, 32, or 64 GB of internal flash memory, with no expansion option. Apple sells a "camera connection kit" with an SD card reader, but it can only be used to transfer photos and videos.
The audio playback of the third-generation iPad has a frequency response of 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz. Without third-party software it can play the following audio formats: HE-AAC, AAC, Protected AAC, MP3, MP3 VBR, Audible formats (2, 3, 4, AEA, AAX, and AAX+), ALAC, AIFF, and WAV. A preliminary tear-down of the third-generation iPad by IHS iSuppli showed the likely costs for a 16 GB Wi-Fi + Cellular model at $358.30, 32 GB at $375.10, and 64 GB at $408.70 respectively.
This iPad uses an internal rechargeable lithium-ion polymer (LiPo) battery. The batteries are made in Taiwan by Simplo Technology (60%) and Dynapack International Technology. The iPad is designed to be charged with a high current of 2 amps using the included 10 W USB power adapter and USB cord with a USB connector at one end and a 30-pin dock connector at the other end. While it can be charged by an older USB port from a computer, these are limited to 500 milliamps (0.5 amps). As a result, if the iPad is in use while powered by a computer, it may charge very slowly, or not at all. High-power USB ports found in newer computers and accessories provide full charging capabilities.
Apple claims that the battery can provide up to 10 hours of video, 140 hours of audio playback, or one month on standby; people say the battery lasts about 8 hours doing normal tasks. Like any rechargeable battery, the iPad's battery loses capacity over time. However, the iPad's battery is not user-replaceable. In a program similar to iPod and iPhone battery-replacement programs, Apple promised to replace an iPad that does not hold an electrical charge with a refurbished unit for a fee of US$99 plus $6.95 shipping. User data is not preserved/transferred. The refurbished unit comes with a new case. The warranty on the refurbished unit may vary between jurisdictions.


=== Accessories ===

The Smart Cover, introduced with the iPad 2, is a screen protector that magnetically attaches to the face of the iPad. The cover has three folds which allow it to convert into a stand, which is also held together by magnets. The Smart Cover can also assume other positions by folding it. While original iPad owners could purchase a black case that included a similarly folding cover, the Smart Cover is simpler, easily detachable, and protects only the screen. Smart Covers have a microfiber bottom that cleans the front of the iPad, and wakes up the unit when the cover is removed. It comes in five colors of both polyurethane and the more expensive leather.

Apple offers several other accessories, most of which are adapters for the proprietary 30-pin dock connector, the only port besides the headphone jack. A dock holds the iPad upright at an angle, and has a dock connector and audio line-out port. The iPad can use Bluetooth keyboards that also work with Macs and PCs. The iPad can be charged by a standalone power adapter ("wall charger") compatible with iPods and iPhones, and a 10-watt charger is included.


== Critical reception ==
The third-generation iPad received positive reviews, receiving praise for its Retina display, camera, processor and LTE capabilities. According to Walt Mossberg of All Things Digital, the new model "has the most spectacular display...seen in a mobile device" and holds the crown as "the best tablet on the planet." Jonathan Spira, writing in Frequent Business Traveler, claimed that it "seems to make everything sharper and clearer."


=== Issues ===


==== Cellular problems ====
Criticism followed the news that in markets outside the US, the tablet cannot communicate with LTE due to its use of 700 MHz and 700/2,100 MHz frequencies, respectively, versus 800 MHz, 1.8 GHz and 2.6 GHz used elsewhere. Soon after the launch, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) took Apple to court for breaking four provisions of Australian consumer law. They alleged that Apple's promotion of the tablet in Australia as the 'iPad Wi-Fi + 4G' misled customers, as the name indicates that it would work on Australia's then-current 4G network. Apple responded to this by offering a full refund to all customers in Australia who purchased the Wi-Fi + Cellular model (when it was previously named "Wi-Fi + 4G") of the iPad.
On April 20, 2012, Apple stated that HSPA+ networks in Australia are 4G, even though the speeds are slower than that of LTE. A month later, on June 21, 2012, Apple was sued for A$2.25 million for false advertising in Australia. In its advertisements Apple claimed that the new iPad was 4G LTE compatible. However, it didn't work with the Telstra LTE mobile data network in Australia. Apple was fined A$2.25 million and was ordered to pay A$300,000 in costs.
Apple agreed to remove all references to 4G (LTE) capability in its UK advertising but as of August had not done so. There was no widespread 4G (LTE) network in the UK at the time, and the third-generation iPad would also be incompatible with future 4G (LTE) networks when they did roll-out there. The Advertising Standards Authority received consumer complaints on the matter. Apple offered to refund customers who bought the device after being misled by the advertising. The result of numerous complaints and lawsuits against Apple regarding the use of the term 4G in their advertisements prompted Apple to rename its "4G" service to "Cellular", with this change appearing on Apple's website on May 13, 2012.


==== Overheating ====
Many users reported abnormally high temperatures on the casing of the unit, especially after running 3D games. If used while plugged in, the rear of the new iPad became as much as 12 °F (6.7 °C) hotter than an iPad 2. The difference unplugged was 13 °F (7.2 °C). Thermal imaging tests revealed that the iPad can reach 116 °F (47 °C). At this temperature it was warm to touch but not uncomfortable when held for a brief period. In a follow-up report, Consumer Reports said, they "don't believe the temperatures we recorded in our tests of the new iPad represent a safety concern."


==== Performance ====
The claimed superiority of the A5X over the Tegra 3 processor was questioned around launch time by competitor Nvidia; some benchmarks later confirmed the iPad's superiority in graphics performance, while other benchmarks show that the Tegra 3 has greater performance in some areas.


=== Criticism ===
Consumer Reports gave the third-generation iPad a top rating and recommendation, claiming that the tablet was "superb", "very good", and "very fast", and that the 4G network, the Retina display, and overall performance were positive attributes. They elaborated on the display quality, stating that the third-generation iPad was "the best we've seen". The iPad's new display was a large enough improvement to prompt Consumer Reports to rate it "excellent," and consequently downgraded the display of other tablets (including the iPad 2) from "excellent" to "very good."
As with the preceding models (see the parent article on the iPad), iOS' closed and proprietary nature garnered criticism, particularly by digital rights advocates such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, computer engineer and activist Brewster Kahle, Internet-law specialist Jonathan Zittrain, and the Free Software Foundation who protested the iPad's introductory event and have targeted the iPad with their "Defective by Design" campaign.


=== Commercial reception ===
Pre-orders were so high for the third-generation iPad that later orders were quoted shipping times of "two to three weeks" after the order was placed. Apple said that "customer response to the new iPad has been off the charts and the quantity available for pre-order has been purchased." Despite the delayed shipping, many users chose to purchase the iPad online instead of waiting in line at the Apple Store. According to an Apple press release, three million units were sold in the first three days. The iPad was purchased mainly by a younger, male demographic. Most of the buyers were either "die-hard Apple fans" or had previously purchased an iPad. An Apple retailer in Dayton, Ohio, claimed that the demand for the tablet was "chaotic" and claimed that its launch was "drastically more significant than the iPad 2 launch." By Q2 of 2012, Apple would hit an all-time high, claiming 69.6 percent of the global tablet market.


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== See also ==
List of iPad accessories
Comparison of tablet computers
E-reader


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
iPad launch event video at Yerba Buena Center for the Arts

# IPad (4th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(4th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:31

The iPad (4th generation) (marketed as iPad with Retina display, colloquially referred to as the iPad 4) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple Inc. Compared to its predecessor, the third-generation iPad, the fourth-generation iPad maintained the Retina Display but featured new and upgraded components such as the Apple A6X chip and the Lightning connector, which was introduced on September 12, 2012. It shipped with iOS 6, which provides a platform for audio-visual media, including electronic books, periodicals, films, music, computer games, presentations and web content. Like the third-generation iPad it replaced, it was supported by five major iOS releases, in this case iOS 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.
It was announced at a media conference on October 23, 2012 as the fourth generation of the iPad line, and was first released on November 2, 2012, in 35 countries, and then through December in ten other countries including China, India and Brazil. The third generation was discontinued following the fourth's announcement, after only seven months of general availability.
The device is available with either a black or white front glass panel and various connectivity and storage options. Storage size options include 16 GB, 32 GB, 64 GB, and 128 GB; the available connectivity options are Wi-Fi only and Wi-Fi + Cellular with LTE capabilities.
The fourth-generation iPad received positive reviews and was praised for its hardware improvements as well as the Retina display, which was also featured in the device's predecessor. Furthermore, benchmarks reveal that the fourth-generation iPad is able to perform CPU-reliant tasks twice as fast as its predecessor. During the first weekend of sales, an aggregated amount of 3 million fourth-generation iPads and iPad Minis were sold.


== History ==

Rumors regarding the next-generation iPad emerged shortly after the release of the third-generation iPad. At that point some speculated that the next iPad released would be of a smaller size. Further speculations emerged in July 2012 when DigiTimes, with the help of unspecified sources, claimed that Apple made small revisions to the then upcoming iPad and scheduled its release for late 2012. On October 16, 2012, Apple announced a media event scheduled for October 23 at the California Theatre in San Jose, California. The company did not pre-disclose the subject of the event, but it was widely expected to be regarding the iPad Mini. Photographic images of the device's dock connector and front camera emerged shortly before the media event.
At the media event, Apple CEO Tim Cook introduced a new version of iBooks and new generations of the MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and the iMac before unveiling the fourth-generation iPad and the lower-end iPad Mini. During the unveiling, Apple stated that the fourth-generation iPad would be available to pre-order online in a selected number of countries starting October 26. On November 2, Apple released the Wi-Fi model of device in 35 countries across Europe, East Asia and North America. The cellular model was released in-store a few weeks after the initial release of the device.
The release of the fourth-generation iPad led to the discontinuation of its predecessor, which angered many third-generation iPad users. In response, Apple extended its 14-day return policy to 30 days. ITProPortal noted that, since the price of both models is identical, consumers that purchased the third-generation iPad within this time frame were effectively allowed to exchange their discontinued device for the fourth-generation model.
On January 29, 2013, Apple announced and scheduled the launch of the 128 GB variant of 4th generation iPad. It was released on February 5, 2013.
Following the announcement of the iPad Air on October 22, 2013, sales of the fourth-generation iPad were discontinued. The fourth-generation iPad was reintroduced on March 18, 2014, following the discontinuation of the iPad 2. In order to make its reintroduction a low-end device to the iPad Air, its price was cut by 20% over its original launch price. On October 16, 2014, the fourth-generation iPad was discontinued in favor of the iPad Air 2; the iPad Air took its place as the entry-level iPad at that time.


== Features ==


=== Software ===

The fourth-generation iPad shipped with iOS 6.0 and later, iOS 7. It can act as a hotspot with some carriers, sharing its Internet connection over Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or USB, and also access the Apple App Store, a digital application distribution platform for iOS. The service allows users to browse and download applications from the iTunes Store that were developed with Xcode and the iOS SDK and were published through Apple. From the App Store, GarageBand, iMovie, iPhoto, and the iWork apps (Pages, Keynote, and Numbers) are available.
The iPad comes with several pre-installed applications, including Siri, Safari, Mail, Photos, Video, Music, iTunes, App Store, Maps, Notes, Calendar, Game Center, Photo Booth, and Contacts. Like all iOS devices, the iPad can sync content and other data with a Mac or PC using iTunes, although iOS 5 and later can be managed and backed up without a computer. Although the tablet is not designed to make phone calls over a cellular network, users can use a headset or the built-in speaker and microphone to place phone calls over Wi-Fi or cellular using a VoIP application, such as Skype. The device has a dictation application, using the same voice recognition technology as the iPhone 4S. The user speaks and the iPad types what they say on the screen, though the iPad must have an internet connection available (via Wi-Fi or cellular network) due to the feature's reliance on Apple servers to translate the speech.
The fourth-generation iPad has an optional iBooks application, which displays books and other ePub-format content downloaded from iBooks. Several major book publishers including Penguin Books, HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster, and Macmillan have committed to publishing books for the device. Despite being a direct competitor to both the Amazon Kindle and Barnes & Noble Nook, both Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble offer e-reader apps for the iPad.
The 4th generation iPad, unlike its immediate predecessor, the 3rd generation iPad, is supported by iOS 10; however, it was announced at the Apple WWDC 2017 that the 4th generation iPad (along with the iPhone 5/5C) will not support iOS 11, as it is a 32-bit iPad. iOS 10.3.3 is the latest and final version of iOS to include support for the Wi-Fi only models of these devices. iOS 10.3.4 is the latest and final version of iOS to include support for the cellular models of these devices, released to fix an issue caused by the GPS week number rollover.


=== Hardware ===

The device has an Apple A6X SoC which comprises a 32-bit Apple dual-core CPU running at 1.4 GHz and a quad-core PowerVR SGX554MP4 GPU, 1 GB of RAM. It also features a 5-megapixel, rear-facing camera capable of 1080p video recording; and a 720p HD front-facing videophone camera designed for FaceTime. The device features a 9.7" (diagonal) display with a resolution of 2,048 by 1,536 (QXGA) resulting in 3.1 million pixels, this gives the display a pixel density of 264 ppi. The total number of pixels used in the display of the fourth-generation iPad is four times that of the iPad 2 – providing even scaling from the prior model.
As with all previous generations of iPhone and iPad hardware, there are four buttons and one switch on the fourth-generation iPad.  With the device in its portrait orientation, these are: a "home" button on the face of the device under the display that returns the user to the home screen, a wake/sleep button on the top edge of the device, and two buttons on the upper right side of the device performing volume up/down functions, above which is a switch whose function varies according to device settings, generally functioning either to switch the device into or out of silent mode or to lock/unlock the orientation of the screen. Externally, the fourth-generation iPad is identical to its predecessor apart from the differences between dock connectors used and change of manufacturers that produce the display. In addition, the Wi-Fi only version weighs 652 grams while the cellular model weighs 662 grams – 2 grams heavier than their respective predecessors. The display responds to other sensors: an ambient light sensor to adjust screen brightness and a 3-axis accelerometer to sense orientation and switch between portrait and landscape modes. Unlike the iPhone and iPod Touch's built-in applications, which work in three orientations (portrait, landscape-left and landscape-right), the iPad's built-in applications support screen rotation in all four orientations, including upside-down. Consequently, the device has no intrinsic "native" orientation; only the relative position of the home button changes.
The tablet is manufactured either with or without the capability to communicate over a cellular network. All models can connect to a wireless LAN via Wi-Fi. The fourth-generation iPad is available with 16, 32, 64 or 128 GB of internal flash memory, with no expansion option. Apple sells a "camera connection kit" with an SD card reader, but it can only be used to transfer photos and videos.
The audio playback of the fourth-generation iPad has a frequency response of 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz. Without third-party software it can play the following audio formats: HE-AAC, AAC, Protected AAC, MP3, MP3 VBR, Audible formats (2, 3, 4, AEA, AAX, and AAX+), ALAC, AIFF, and WAV.
This iPad uses an internal rechargeable lithium-ion polymer (LiPo) battery that can hold a charge of 11,560 mAh. The batteries are made in Taiwan by Simplo Technology (60%) and Dynapack International Technology (40%). The iPad is designed to be charged with a relatively high current of 2 amps using the included 12 W USB power adapter and Lightning connector. While it can be charged by an older USB port from a computer, these are limited to 500 milliamps (0.5 amps). As a result, if the iPad is in use while powered by a computer, it may charge very slowly, or not at all. High-power USB ports found in newer computers and accessories provide full charging capabilities. Apple claims that the battery can provide up to 10 hours of video, audio playback, or web surfing on Wi-Fi, 9 hours of web surfing over a cellular connection, or one month on standby. Like any rechargeable battery, the iPad's battery loses capacity over time. However, the iPad's battery is not user-replaceable. In a program similar to iPod and iPhone battery-replacement programs, Apple promised to replace an iPad that does not hold an electrical charge with a refurbished unit for a fee. During the battery replacement process, user data is not preserved/transferred, and repaired or refurbished units come with a new case. The warranty on the refurbished unit may vary between jurisdictions.
The iPad (4th generation) was the last iPad that has a 32-bit processor and one of the last Apple products to have a 32-bit processor, along with the iPhone 5 and iPhone 5C, which has the A6 chips.


=== Accessories ===

The Smart Cover, introduced with the iPad 2, is a screen protector that magnetically attaches to the face of the iPad. The cover has three folds which allow it to convert into a stand, which is also held together by magnets. The Smart Cover can also assume other positions by folding it. Smart Covers have a microfiber bottom that cleans the front of the iPad and wakes up the unit when the cover is removed. It comes in five colors of both polyurethane and the more expensive leather.
Apple offers several other accessories, most of which are adapters for the proprietary Lightning connector, the only port besides the headphone jack. A dock holds the iPad at an angle, and has a dock connector and audio line-out port. The iPad can use Bluetooth keyboards that also work with Macs and PCs. The iPad can be charged by a standalone power adapter ("wall charger") compatible with iPods and iPhones, and a 12 watt charger is included.


== Reception ==
The fourth-generation iPad received positive reviews from critics and commentators. The review by Gareth Beavis of TechRadar praised the device for its high-resolution Retina Display, which TechRadar wrote is "...one of the most impressive we've seen on a tablet to date." However, the reviewer also wrote that the screen "lacks the 'punch' seen in Super AMOLED screens seen on devices like the Samsung Galaxy Note 2." The review also praised the interface of the iPad for its simple design and easy to use layout. Additionally, other aspects, such as the design of the iPad and updated SoC were noted and praised in the review. Critically, Beavis noted that the iPad can still moderately heat up under medium usage, however not to the extent seen in the third-generation iPad. Tim Stevens of Engadget praised the Retina Display and labelled it as the best screen available on tablets. Benchmarks and tests conducted by Engadget resulted in Stevens concluding that the fourth-generation iPad is the fastest Apple mobile device available, surpassing a "record" that the iPhone 5 held for a brief period.
Benchmark tests conducted by SlashGear concluded that the SoC of the fourth-generation iPad is able to perform CPU-reliant tasks more than twice as fast as that of the third-generation iPad. A series of benchmark tests conducted on the graphics performance of the fourth-generation iPad by Anandtech resulted in the device achieving the highest score compared to other consumer mobile devices, including the Samsung Galaxy S III, Nexus 10 and third-generation iPad. The performance increase of the fourth-generation iPad varies between tests, however an increase is nonetheless evident. Furthermore, battery longevity tests conducted by the same organization suggests that the battery of the fourth-generation iPad is able to last longer than its predecessor. However, the battery of the updated iPad 2 is able to outlast the fourth-generation iPad.


=== Commercial reception ===
In the first weekend of sales of the iPad Mini and fourth-generation iPad, Apple reported that it sold an aggregated number of 3 million units. TechRadar noted that the first weekend sales figures for the fourth-generation iPad are lower than corresponding figures for the third-generation iPad, which sold 3 million units in its first weekend. Subsequent reports and analysis such as that from David Hsieh, a technology analyst, suggest that the iPad mini is selling better than the fourth-generation iPad. Despite the noted slump in sales, Apple's stock price, in direct response to the figures released, rose by 1.4% to $584.62 on November 5.


=== Criticism ===
In a repairability review conducted by iFixit, the fourth-generation iPad scored 2 out of 10 (10 being the easiest to repair) due to the use of adhesive to attach components. However, reviewers noted that several components such as the screen and battery could be removed easily for replacement.


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== See also ==
iPad accessories
Comparison of tablet computers
E-book reader
Nexus 10


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

# IPad (5th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(5th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:32

The iPad (5th generation) (also referred to as the iPad 9.7-inch) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple Inc. After its announcement on March 21, 2017, conflicting naming conventions spawned a number of different names, including "fifth-generation iPad" or "iPad (2017)".
The device was released five years after the previous fourth-generation iPad, as the iPad Air was released in 2013 as the successor to the iPad lineup. The iPad Air lineup later continued as a separate, higher-end device, while the iPad was positioned as an entry-level model.
Unlike the iPad Air 2, this iPad does not have a fully laminated display, and also lacks an anti-reflective coating.
On March 27, 2018, Apple announced its successor, the sixth-generation iPad.


== History ==
This iPad model was announced by Apple on March 24, 2017 in a press release. There has been confusion around its naming, being referred to as just "iPad" in marketing, but called the "fifth-generation iPad" in official statements and specifications sheets, a title previously taken by 2013's iPad Air. Other sources refer to it as the "seventh-generation iPad", when including the iPad Air and iPad Air 2 as the fifth- and sixth-generation iPads respectively. It has also been referred to as "iPad 2017".


=== Pricing strategies ===
Matt Kapko of CIO wrote that Apple's introductory pricing of $329 in the United States for the iPad, a $70 price reduction vs the iPad Air 2, appeared to be designed to fend off the encroachment of Google's Chromebook laptops in the education sector and to foster wider adoption in customer-facing terminals. Kapko also wrote that the device is designed to appeal to businesses that require inexpensive tablets for undemanding use, including as kiosks, checkout terminals, and hospitality screens.


== Specifications ==


=== Hardware ===
The fifth generation iPad shares most design elements with the iPad Air, with a 9.7-inch (25 cm) screen, 7.5 mm (0.30 in) thickness, and differences such as the lack of the physical mute switch, smaller microphone holes and only a single row of speaker holes, and storage. Compared to the iPad Air 2, the processor is updated from the Apple A8X to the A9 with the embedded Apple M9 motion co-processor. The fifth generation iPad has 2 gigabytes of RAM. Unlike other iPad models available, this iPad's display is not fully laminated and does not have anti-reflective coating. However, this iPad has a brighter screen than the iPad Air 2 (25% brighter according to Apple). It is available in 32 and 128 GB storage options. Contrasting with the iPad Pro lineup, this iPad features only two speakers (as opposed to four), has no Smart Connector support, and has no camera flash. It is offered in silver, gold, and space grey colors. Despite its use of the Apple A9 processor and accompanying M9 motion co-processor, introduced with the iPhone 6S in 2015, the iPad does not feature support for always-on "Hey Siri" voice input, a feature advertised as being made possible by low-power processing in the then-new chips. The use of "Hey Siri" is limited to when the iPad is connected to power.


=== Software ===
At the time of its original release, the iPad shipped with iOS 10, a version of Apple's mobile operating system. New units sold come with the new iOS 11 operating system after its Fall 2017 release. The included Touch ID fingerprint sensor allows the user to unlock the device as well as approve purchases from the App Store, iTunes Store, and Apple Books Store. Touch ID and Apple Pay let the user purchase items from websites or from within apps.
The fifth-generation iPad supports up to iPadOS 16, and does not support iPadOS 17.


== Reception ==
The iPad received generally positive reviews. It was significantly praised for performance, with reviewers asserting that the model was noticeably faster than older iPad models, and also received positive reviews for its price and battery life. It was criticized, however, for lacking a laminated and anti-reflective screen, lack of support for the Apple Pencil, and lack of a Smart Connector for accessories such as attachable keyboards, the latter two of these criticisms being remedied with the introduction of the iPad (6th generation) a year later. Its introductory price in the United States was the lowest ever for an iPad, with the media noting that the lower price might be an effort to encourage wider adoption of the tablet in the education sector, as well as for businesses needing inexpensive tablets for undemanding uses.
Dieter Bohn of The Verge wrote that "it is a thin, fast tablet", and praised the screen for being "very good", despite not having "the fancy True Tone display that the iPad Pro does, nor does it have some of the things that made the screen on the iPad Air 2 so nice: lamination and anti-reflectivity". He criticized the lack of support for attachable keyboards and Apple Pencil, while praising the A9 processor as "significantly faster than older iPads", though noting that it isn't "necessarily significantly faster than the iPad Air 2", and "not as fast as the iPad Pro". He also disliked that the iPad only features two speakers, as opposed to four on the iPad Pro, while summarizing the overall review with "Fundamentally, what I am trying to tell you is that this is an iPad. You trust that iPads are decent tablets and that they have a basic level of quality, speed, and functionality" and "Get one if you need one, but don't stress that you're missing out if you don't."
Sascha Segan of PC Magazine wrote that "The Apple iPad is more affordable than ever" and noted that "While there's little reason for existing iPad owners to upgrade, the new iPad's price stabs a stake into the heart of many competing Android tablets". Although criticizing the non-laminated display for being "a little more washed out than its predecessor", he claimed that he "couldn't see a measurable difference" and that it's "a nominal degradation in quality that doesn't really matter in everyday use". Segan also praised performance compared to the prior iPad models, and also praised improved Wi-Fi performance, writing that it is "quite impressive" with "double the Wi-Fi speeds on the new iPad than I did on the Air 2". Jeff Benjamin of 9to5Mac wrote that "Sure, it lacks the gorgeous laminated, anti-reflective display of the iPad Air 2, and sure it's not as svelte in either thickness or weight. But there's no denying that the 2017 iPad with A9 dual core processor in tow, is a good value". He described the tablet as a "solid buy for upgraders and new users".
Igor Bonifacic of MobileSyrup also praised the performance, as well as number of iPad apps available, but criticized the camera for being outdated and keyboard/Pencil incompatibility, with a summarization reading: "The 2017 iPad is not an exciting tablet. But then it's not supposed to be exciting, [...] Apple's latest tablet is an iterative update designed to appeal to a specific subset of consumers". Bonifacic also called the tablet "perfect for first-time tablet buyers". Chris Velazco of Engadget praised battery life, describing it as "one of the best iPads we've tested", but also criticized the lack of anti-reflection on the display, calling it "another cost-saving measure that I wish Apple had reconsidered".


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to IPad 2017 at Wikimedia Commons

Official website

# IPad (6th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(6th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:34

The sixth generation iPad (also referred to as the iPad 9.7-inch) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple. It was announced and released in March 2018 and succeeded the fifth-generation iPad, upgraded with the Apple A10 Fusion processor and support for styluses including the Apple Pencil. The iPad was marketed towards educators and schools.
The sixth generation was replaced in September 2019, by the seventh-generation iPad and is the last iPad with the original 9.7 inch display size.


== Specifications ==
The iPad was shipped with iOS 11, and had the iWork suite of apps pre-installed and included Apple Pencil stylus support. The iPad supports up to iPadOS 17, and does not support iPadOS 18 or iPadOS 26. In June 2025, a developer on GitHub unofficially ported iPadOS 18 to the iPad.
The iPad's hardware is nearly identical to the previous generation, except for a few upgrades, such as Apple Pencil and stylus support and an upgraded processor, the Apple A10 Fusion.  It is available in three colors: Silver, Space Gray, and Gold, a new color, matching the updated color introduced with the iPhone 8. The iPad has 2 gigabytes of RAM. It is 7.5 mm thick. The iPad is available in 32 and 128 GB storage options. Unlike other iPad models, the iPad 6 does not feature a laminated display. The iPad does not support Apple Intelligence.


== Release and reception ==
The sixth generation iPad was announced on March 27, 2018, during an education-focused event at Lane Tech High School in Chicago. The iPad was upgraded over the fifth-generation iPad with the Apple A10 Fusion processor and support for the Apple Pencil and other styluses, and was marketed towards educators and schools. It went on sale March 27, 2018 for US$329.
The 2018 iPad received positive reviews. Gareth Beavis of TechRadar praised the addition of the Apple Pencil and the powerful A10 chip, but noted that it was as costly as the previous generation iPad. Scott Stein of CNET also praised the addition of support for Apple Pencil and the upgrade to the A10 chip, but criticized it for lacking the Smart Connector as well as not having the same display technology as the iPad Pro, writing "the 2018 entry-level iPad doesn't add much, but it makes an already excellent tablet a better buy than ever."


== Timeline of models ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

# IPad (7th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(7th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:36

The seventh generation iPad (also referred to as the iPad 10.2-inch) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple. It features a 10.2-inch (26 cm) Retina display and is powered by the Apple A10 Fusion processor. It was the successor to the 9.7-inch (25 cm) sixth generation iPad. The device was revealed on September 10, 2019, and released on September 25, 2019.
Unlike previous iPad models, which had a 9.7-inch (25 cm) display, the device was the first in the entry-level iPad lineup to feature a larger 10.2-inch (26 cm) display size.The device supports the first generation Apple Pencil and a smart keyboard connector and was targeted towards the budget and educational markets.
Its successor, the eighth-generation iPad, was revealed on September 15, 2020. The seventh generation iPad is the last iPad to support iPadOS 18.
Because the A10 Fusion processor did not have any neural engine cores, this was the last currently supported iPad without a neural engine.


== History ==
Rumors centering around a successor to the 2018 iPad began to surface in the first half of 2019, when seven iPad models were registered on the Eurasian Economic Commission, a database known for providing hints about upcoming devices to be released by Apple. One of the models was believed to be a new entry-level iPad, which would allegedly have minor design upgrades as compared to the 2018 iPad. Several sources have claimed that the new model would feature a dual-lens rear camera and that its screen size may measure 10.2 inches, up from the 9.7-inch screen size of previous iPad models. Reports from BGR also claimed that the device could begin its mass production in July 2019, with a predicted release date of around the third quarter of that year.
This iPad was revealed by Apple on September 10, 2019, at the same event as the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max at the Steve Jobs Theater, with a scheduled release date of September 30 of that year. It was announced to retail at a starting price of $329 in the United States. The iPad was released on the online Apple Store on September 25, 2019.
Notably, the body dimensions of the 2019 10.2" iPad have been enlarged to match that of the third generation iPad Air and the previous generation 10.5" iPad Pro, allowing the Smart Keyboard to be used for all three models. In addition to eliminating recharging and Bluetooth pairing, the direct connection satisfies the education market's requirement for direct connection only during standardized tests. All iPads also retain backwards compatibility with third-party accessory Bluetooth keyboards.
Following the announcement at Apple's WWDC 2025, the seventh-generation iPad no longer supports the major software update starting with iPadOS 26 onwards.


== Reception ==
The 2019 10.2-inch iPad was criticized for the a lack of a processor upgrade over the previous year's 9.7-inch model. However, while the A10 processor itself has not been upgraded to a later processor, the system-on-chip housing the A10 chip in the 2019 10.2-inch iPad has been upgraded to include 3 GB of RAM, 50% more than the previous year's model. Battery life has also been praised for the A10 series.


== Timeline of models ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==

# IPad (8th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(8th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:38

The iPad (8th generation) (also referred to as the iPad 10.2-inch 2020) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple Inc. as the successor to the 7th-generation iPad. It was announced on September 15, 2020 and released on September 18, 2020.


== Features ==

The eighth-generation iPad uses the same design as the seventh-generation iPad, with a 10.2-inch screen with 1620 by 2160 pixels at a pixel density of 264-pixel PPI, Touch ID support, and compatibility with the Smart Connector.
It uses the Apple A12 chip, which Apple claims provides a 40% faster 6-core CPU and a 2x faster 4 core GPU compared to the processor of the previous generation. It is the first model in Apple's entry level iPad lineup to include a Neural Engine, a component introduced with the A11 processor. It is the final iPad tablet available with white bezels on the Silver and Gold models; all iPad (9th generation) tablets come with black bezels.
The eighth-generation iPad is compatible with the first-generation Apple Pencil, the Smart Keyboard and keyboard attachments compatible with the Smart Connector.
It was released running iPadOS 14, with iPadOS 15 unveiled later at WWDC21 and iPadOS 16 announced at WWDC22.


== Reception ==
Miles Somerville of 9to5Mac found the tablet to be a good value proposition at its price point. He described it as having a nearly identical appearance to its predecessor, but with improved battery life, enhanced performance owing to the upgrade from the A10 Fusion to the A12 Bionic, and better screen sensitivity for Apple Pencil use, while continuing the poor implementation of Pencil charging on a perpendicular direction from the tablet's Lightning port. He found it sufficient for basic activities, gaming, everyday content consumption, and general multitasking, although not measuring up to the 2020 iPad Pro or the simultaneously released fourth-generation iPad Air, in part due to its display that supports only a 60 Hz refresh rate instead of 120 Hz. He especially faulted Apple's choice of keeping a 1.2-megapixel camera on the front of the tablet, which could be a strong negative factor for an intended audience of students, who might plan to use the device for teleconference classes over platforms such as Zoom.
Scott Stein of CNET rated the tablet 8.1 out of 10. Stein commended it for its faster processing that handled iPadOS better than previous models, better support for Apple Pencil and keyboard cases, and a faster charger included in the box. He faulted it for the large bezels that lead to a cramped feel of its screen during multitasking with two apps open, lack of support for the second-generation Apple Pencil and newer Magic Keyboard cases, the outdated 720p camera that does not function well in landscape mode teleconferencing because of placement, the display limited to a 60 Hz refresh rate and lacking True Tone color temperature auto-adjustment, and the insufficient 32 gigabytes of storage for the entry-level model.
David Price of Macworld UK echoed many of the other critiques while noting that this model of iPad would find an audience among average consumers who had not upgraded their iPads in years. He described the continuing design as "comfortably big enough" for typical content, with thoughtful touches, but a dated look because of the large bezels, and welcomed the ongoing inclusion of a headphone jack and rear-facing camera that sits flush with the tablet body. He noted that the lack of screen lamination and consequent flex of the screen during touches could be noticeable to users of higher-end tablets, that the lack of flash on either rear or front camera would hinder low-light teleconferencing and FaceTime Video use, and that the included amount of RAM was low compared to other tablets.


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==

# IPad (9th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(9th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:40

The iPad (9th generation) (also referred to as the iPad 10.2-inch) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple as the successor to the eighth-generation iPad. It was announced on September 14, 2021, and released on September 24. The ninth-generation iPad was discontinued on May 7, 2024, with the announcement of the iPad Air (6th generation) and the iPad Pro (7th generation). It was the last iPad model to have a home button, Lightning port and headphone jack. The iPad 9th generation was later replaced with the 10th generation in October 2022 after the release of iPhone 14.


== Features ==

The ninth-generation iPad has the same design as the seventh- and eighth-generation iPads, although all color options now come with a black display bezel, and the gold color option has been removed. It is compatible with the first-generation Apple Pencil, and the Smart Keyboard and Smart Connector for keyboard attachments. It uses the Apple A13 Bionic chip which was previously seen in the iPhone 11 in 2019, which Apple claims gives a 20% CPU, GPU, and Neural Engine increase in performance compared to its predecessor. It features a 10.2-inch Retina display identical to the previous models, with 1620 by 2160 pixels at a density of 264 PPI, and includes True Tone technology, meaning the display can adjust its color temperature based on the surrounding light temperature. A new 12 MP front camera (122 degree wide-angle) is fitted in place of the 1.2 MP camera of previous models, which features Center Stage technology that detects the user and moves the camera view accordingly during video recording and calls. The rear 8 MP camera is from the earlier iPad Air 2. The base storage is doubled to 64 GB. iPadOS 15 is pre-installed at release. The iPad (9th generation) was the last generation iPad to have a home button, headphone jack and Lightning Port.


== Reception ==
The New York Times called the 9th-generation iPad "the best tablet for almost anyone" in 2022, praising its price, performance and features. CNET gave it a 8.1/10, and praised the iPad for its performance and increased storage over its predecessor, while finding fault with its design, which was perceived as outdated.


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==

# IPad (10th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(10th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:41

The iPad (10th generation) (also referred to as the iPad 10.9-inch) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple Inc. as the successor to the ninth-generation iPad. It was announced on October 18, 2022, and was released on October 26, 2022.


== Specifications ==
The design of the tenth-generation iPad more closely resembles the higher-end iPad Air and Pro models, with flatter edges and no home button. As with the iPad Air and Mini, the Touch ID sensor is located in the power button. It is available in silver, blue, pink, and yellow color finishes. 
Like the iPad Air, it has a 10.9-inch 2360x1640 Liquid Retina display; an increase from the previous 10.2-inch model, but it is not laminated. The tenth-generation iPad uses an A14 Bionic processor, previously seen in the fourth-generation iPad Air and the iPhone 12 in 2020. The chip has a 6-core CPU, a 4-core GPU, and a 16-core Neural Engine. 
The tenth-generation iPad has Bluetooth 5.2 and Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) wireless capabilities, as well as sub-6 GHz 5G on cellular models. It is the first base model iPad to use USB-C instead of the Lightning connector; connectivity is limited to USB 2.0 transfer speeds, with support for external displays at 1080p resolution at a refresh rate of 60 Hz, or 2160p at 30 Hz. The tenth-generation iPad does not include a headphone connector, requiring wireless headphones or a USB-C adapter sold separately. 
The tenth-generation iPad features a 12-megapixel rear-facing wide-angle camera with an ƒ/1.8 aperture and 4K video recording support. In a first for any iPad, the front-facing camera is now located on the long edge of the display, so that it is horizontally centered when the tablet is in a landscape orientation.


== Accessories ==
The tenth-generation iPad supports the first-generation Apple Pencil; a USB-C to Lightning cable adapter must be used to pair and charge it. This adapter has been included with newer production runs of the first-generation Pencil since October 2022, and is sold separately for existing owners. It also supports the lower-cost Apple Pencil (USB-C), which charges via a built-in USB-C port. Unlike other iPad models with USB-C, it does not support the second-generation Apple Pencil.
Apple unveiled a new keyboard cover accessory for the tenth-generation iPad known as the Magic Keyboard Folio, as it is incompatible with the Magic Keyboard and Smart Keyboard Folio. Unlike the Magic Keyboard designed for the iPad Air and iPad Pro, the Magic Keyboard Folio detaches from the back cover and can be used as an adjustable stand, and it includes a 14-key function row with a lock button.


== Reception ==
The tenth-generation iPad received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for its new design, battery life, and performance, but criticism for removing the headphone jack, the lack of support for the second-generation Apple Pencil, and a higher price point than its predecessor.
CNN writer Mike Andronico felt that the A14 processor had "the best [performance] we've seen on a tablet at this price" and made the device "more future-proof", while the Magic Keyboard Folio accessory was considered to potentially be Apple's "best keyboard cover yet". However, it was noted that its display was "starting to show its age" in comparison to the iPad Pro and the iPhone 14 Pro due to its lower resolution and refresh rate, and that "for the vast majority of people who just want a great tablet for streaming, sketching, gaming and some light productivity, the ninth-gen iPad is still the better value". 
The Verge similarly questioned the model's positioning as being "stuck in the middle" between the cheaper ninth-generation iPad and the higher-end Air and Pro, noting that "in a vacuum, there’s very little to complain about with the 10th-gen iPad. It’s an excellent tablet that does all of the things you expect from a tablet very well", but that "it costs considerably more [than the ninth-generation model] and is not as good as an iPad Air. And since you can find a current iPad Air on sale fairly easily at this point, this new iPad is not the iPad to buy right now despite the fact that it has a lot going for it."


== Timeline ==

Source: Apple Newsroom Archive.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

# IPad (11th generation)

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_(11th_generation)
Last Updated: 2025-08-25 12:27:43

The eleventh generation iPad (also marketed as the iPad (A16)) is a tablet computer developed and marketed by Apple, as the successor of the tenth generation iPad. It was announced on March 4, 2025, and was released on March 12, 2025.


== Specifications ==
Like its predecessor, the Touch ID sensor is located in the power button and shares the same colors of silver, blue, pink, and yellow.
Like the tenth generation iPad, it has an 11-inch (28 cm) 2360x1640 unlaminated Liquid Retina display. The 11th generation iPad uses the A16 processor, previously used in the iPhone 14 Pro, Pro Max and iPhone 15, 15 Plus.
The chip has a 5-core CPU, a 4-core GPU, and a 16-core Neural Engine. Because of the chip and RAM limitations, the iPad does not support Apple Intelligence. Different from the iPad 10th-generation, this iPad uses 6GB RAM, the same as the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 15 series.
The 11th generation iPad has Bluetooth 5.3 and Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) wireless capabilities, as well as sub-6GHz 5G on cellular models. Connectivity is limited to USB 2.0 transfer speeds. The 11th generation iPad does not include a headphone connector, requiring wireless headphones or a USB-C adapter, both sold separately.


== Accessories ==
The eleventh-generation iPad supports Apple Pencil (USB-C) and the first-generation Apple Pencil. Additionally, the eleventh-generation iPad supports the same keyboard accessory, Magic Keyboard Folio, as its predecessor.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website